URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/LaSV1dPizR0
TITLE: Other Suns : 26 (sic 25) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Monday, 15 October 1990 16:13:25 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.25 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero. This gaming material is distributed on a shareware basis. If you do not use the material you owe the author
nothing. If you do use it please pay him what you think it is worth at a fair price because it took a damn lot of work to develop and playtest. The USmail
address is:
    Niall Shapero
    2536 Short Ave
    Los Angeles
    CA 90066
    USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:(213)822-6729
Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will pass them on to Niall.

---------------- end of preamble -------------------------------------------
    in this fashion takes 20 minutes and requires an Arctic Survival skill roll to do safely (regardless of level of skill); the penalty for failure in the
    Arctic Survival skill is 1D4 frostbite damage to one location (character's choice).

    Any energy weapon can be used to melt snow or ice; each point of damage in a normal burst produces 10 cubic centimeters of usable water (and a good deal
of steam); when fired on wide beam, four times as much usable water is produced. One liter of water equals 1000 cubic centimeters, so a character can expect
to get roughly 1.68 liters of water if he completely expends the magazine in a typical handblaster (which he can do in one melee round if the weapon is set
on wide beam).

    If energy weapons are not used to melt the snow or ice, solving the water problem becomes a much more strenuous undertaking. Gathering ice costs 20
minutes of Heavy Activity per 2 liters equivalent gathered, gathering snow costs 20 minutes of Moderate Activity per 10 liters equivalent gathered. Depending
 on local conditions, however, snow may not be available.

    Fires and Heat: Open fires can be lit only if the winds are less than 16 kph; if a barrier or emergency shelter is in place, the wind force is halved for
    this purpose. Fuel for fires can be obtained from wood, carried chemical sources, or from animal fat (this last source requires the character either have
    Arctic Survival skill at 30% or above or that he make a successful Arctic Survival skill roll).

    Direction Finding: Characters close to the magnetic pole cannot use magnetic compasses for reliable direction finders. Instruments not relying upon
magnetic fields (such as the inertial tracker described in the Equipment section, to follow) are not effected.

    Improvised Clothing: It is possible for a character to make Class I cold weather gear (boots, pants, hooded coat, mittens, and face mask -- see Equipment
section for more details on cold weather gear) from pelts of animals. Class I CWG (cold weather gear) will mass 0.6% of body mass per hit number covered --
thus a typical full suit will mass 9.76 kilograms for a SIZ 20 Human (who masses 80 kilograms). The usable animal pelts will constitute slightly less than 5
.5% of the animal mass (loses during curing, trimming and sewing to form the Class I CWG taken into account).

    As a rule of thumb, multiply the mass of the individual who is to be outfitted by 2.2 -- this will yield the required aggregate mass of the animals to be
used to make his Class I CWG. Please note, however: use of blasters for hunting will damage or destroy portions of the pelt. The Referee should exercise his
judgment and reduce the mass contribution of animals killed using blasters to the total on a case by case basis.

    Exclusive of hunting time, one person takes three or more days to dress, fit, and sew the hides. The first day is spent curing the pelts, a task which
does not require any attention from the characters (it can be done on the move, or in addition to other activities). On the second day and subsequent days,
though, the material must be cut, sewn, and fitted; this takes one man-hour per 10 kilograms of animal being used for the pelts. Other activities cannot be
performed at the same time. The resulting cloth-ing is treated as Class I CWG for all purposes.

    Minimum Times: All tasks whose completion times are expressed in man-hours take at least one hour to complete, regardless of the number of people working
on the task.

    Fliers: Beings or animals capable of personal winged flight do so at Heavy Activity rates (Very Heavy Activity rates if the gravity is higher or the air
pressure lower than on their homeworld). Fliers may not protect their wings from direct exposure to the air (with concurrent possible hypothermia and
frostbite effects) and still fly. It is to be noted, however, that feathers are typically far better insulation than fur. For more details on the subject of
personal flight, the Wings of Fire supplement (which deals with the Auuri, a race of feathered fliers) should be consulted.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 20 OF 28)
                        EQUIPMENT
    A wide variety of gear is available for use in arctic conditions. Many such items are discussed in the sections below.

    Racial Variations: Most equipment discussed in this chapter is designed (except where specified otherwise) for Human sized bipedal characters. Mass (and
price) of some equipment may vary with the SIZ of the individual. In other cases, other races may need different quantities of an item, as well as different
sizes. A quadruped, for instance, might use four skis instead of two. Generally, beings of one race cannot use equipment intended for another race unless the
gear is noted as being "multispecies" in the equipment description. Vehicles can be used by any species, but if it is noted as seating a given number of a
particular race (say, eight Humans) then members of other races are accommodated on the basis of relative mass (a Bjoran equals roughly 10.5 Humans, for
instance). Where sizes are radically different, as with Bjora to Humans, a great deal of discomfort is likely to ensue ... try riding a small child's
tricycle to see how a Bjoran might feel in a designed-for-Humans snowmobile. Vehicles designed for other races widely differing in size from Humans will cost
 more (or less) based upon the relative expected masses of the driver and passengers; a ground car designed for six Bjora scaled directly from the standard
 ground car would mass 10.5 times as much, would cost accordingly and could probably carry 63 average Humans (who might have a lot of trouble operating the
 manual controls because of the size differential).

                        COLD WEATHER GEAR
    In addition to the armor discussed in the basic rules, the fol-lowing types of special protective clothing are available.

    Class I Cold Weather Gear: A relatively primitive form of cold weather clothing using natural fabrics, hides, furs, etc., for protection from the
elements. This type of clothing is bulky but can be obtained on frontier worlds (or even made from locally available materials in the field -- see Survival
Techniques earlier). Full Class I CWG consists of simple "long johns" or an undercoat, worn under boots, pants, a hooded parka, face mask, and gloves.

    Class I CWG masses 0.6% of body weight per hit number covered (thus full coverage Class I CWG masses 12.2% of body mass). It costs 3 smu per
kilogram of mass, though the "price" in the field might be far higher; a corpse has little use for money, after all. Class I CWG has a +15o C temperature
modifier and it has a -30 kph wind speed modifier (as per Type IV natural protection). Class I CWG is Armor Type 1 and provides 3 points of impact and
energy protection.

    Class II Cold Weather Gear: Substituting exotic synthetics for natural materials, Class II CWG is more efficient, lighter in weight, though somewhat more
expensive than Class I CWG. Class II CWG cannot be manufactured "in the field".

    Class II CWG masses 0.4% of body weight per hit number covered (thus full coverage Class II CWG masses 8% of body mass). It costs 5 smu per kilogram of
mass. Class II CWG has a +20o C temperature modifier and a -40 kph wind speed modifier (as per Type V natural protection). Class II CWG is Armor Type 1 and
provides 3 points of impact and energy protection.

    Class III Cold Weather Gear: Making use of even more sophisticated and exotic synthetics, Class III CWG is the ultimate in ordi-nary (i.e. non-thermostat
controlled) clothing. Again, it is more efficient, more expensive, and lighter in weight than Class I and II CWG. As per Class II CWG, it cannot be
manufactured under primitive field conditions.

    Class III CWG masses 0.3% of body weight per hit number covered (thus full coverage Class III CWG masses 6% of body mass). It costs 10 smu per kilogram
of mass, has a +25o C temperature modifier and a -50 kph wind speed modifier (as per Type VI natural protection). Class III CWG is Armor Type 1 and provides
3 points of impact and energy protection.

    Class IV Cold Weather Gear: A development of the Class III CWG, Class IV gear incorporates a system of heat filaments that can be linked to a small
battery pack for thermostatic control of the temperature modifier of the outfit. As per Class III, it cannot be manufactured under primitive field conditions.

    Class IV CWG masses 0.3% of body weight per hit number covered (as per Class III CWG), however it costs 15 smu per kilogram of mass. With the
thermostatic controls off (or the heating elements unpowered) it provides the same thermal and wind protection as Class III CWG. The temperature modifier,
however, can be varied -- up to +50o C -- for as long as power is supplied to the suit (generally through batteries).

    Heatsuit: A lightweight skintight suit, incorporating heater filaments, the thermostatic control provided by the heatsuit is the only protection it
provides against the elements. A heatsuit may, however, be worn under other forms of cold weather protection (it may not, however, be worn if webbing is
worn, nor may it be worn by any species not capable of wearing webbing -- such as Altani, H'Reli, Skiltaire, etc.)

                       ICE WORLD I (PART 21 OF 28)
    A heatsuit masses 0.3% of body weight per hit number covered (thus a full coverage suit masses 6% of body mass). It costs 20 smu per kilogram of mass,
and has a variable temperature modifier (0-40o C). Power must be supplied to the suit (either through batteries or an external power source) for the heater
filaments to function. A heatsuit is Armor Type 1 and provides 3 points of impact and energy protection.

    Heater mask: When the ambient air temperature is -60o C or less, breathing the unheated air becomes dangerous. The heater mask will preheat inhaled air
by up to 10o C (adjustable, 0-10). Heater masks cover one hit number (01 -- the face) and provide an additional 3 points of impact and energy protection.
They are
