URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/LpIeXl4q__g
TITLE: Other Suns : 28 (sic 27) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, 16 October 1990 15:26:32 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.27 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero. This gaming material is distributed on a shareware basis. If you do not use the material you owe the author
nothing. If you do use it please pay him what you think it is worth at a fair price because it took a damn lot of work to develop and playtest. The USmail
address is:
    Niall Shapero
    2536 Short Ave
    Los Angeles
    CA 90066
    USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:(213)822-6729
Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will pass them on to Niall.

---------------- end of preamble -------------------------------------------
is 300 kilograms (empty), cost is 125 smu.

    Combination Trailer: Carries up to 250 kilograms of cargo and up to 3 Human sized passengers. Mass is 300 kilograms (empty), cost is 125 smu.

    Driver Cab: A cockpit-style canopy that can be attached to any snowmobile. The cab provides protection from the elements, and can be heated. Two types
    are available.

    Standard Cab: Mass 40 kilograms, cost 225 smu. An armored cab that provides 10 points of impact and energy protection.

    Pressurized Cab: Mass 150 kilograms, cost 1200 smu. Pressurized for use in hostile atmospheres. A small airlock mechanism is included, and both the cab
and airlock are armored. Pressurization and life support are provided through tanked air -- 200 man-hours for a SIZ 20 individual (time varies proportional
to SIZ). New tanks are 50 smu each; recharging old tanks requires a standard starship Life Support module, and takes 10 turns per tank (the usual recharge
cost is 10 smu). The armored cab provides 30 points of impact and energy protection and is self sealing (up to a point); 20 points of penetrating damage will
destroy the cab.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 23 OF 28)
                        VEHICLE ACCESSORIES
    Arctic Wheel Adapters: This is a general category of gear including snow tires, chains, spikes, and other methods of improving traction in snow and ice.
Wheeled vehicles using these methods add 0.15 to all speed multiples less than 1 in snow or ice conditions. If adapters are used, 5% is added to the
operation skill in snow and ice. One adapter is needed for each wheel. Mass is 2 kilograms, cost is 5 smu. Multispecies gear.

    Jumper Cables: Simple cables permitting the charge of a vehicle battery to be partially drained into that of another vehicle. Mass is 0.5 kilograms per
meter of cable, cost is 1 smu per meter of cable. Commonly available lengths are 2, 5, and 10 meters.

                        OTHER EQUIPMENT
    The following items are pieces of equipment with may be of general interest.

    Food Converter: This device will convert any organic material into a food paste usable by the species for which it is programmed. The paste has a
pleasant taste, though few sophonts will wish to eat it to the exclusion of more normal foods; the more charitable users refer to the taste as "bland" and
what less tolerant (or more discriminating) individual's say about the paste we leave to the imagination of the reader.

    In 1 hour, a food converter will process 1 kilogram of plant matter and produce 0.2 kilograms of meat equivalent or it will process 1 kilogram of meat
and produce 0.8 kilograms of meat equivalent. It can be used to produce usable food for carnivores from plant matter, or to remove inedible components (such
as poisons) from meat. A battery pack will run the food converter for 100 hours.

    The food converter masses 2.3 kilograms exclusive of battery and programming cartridge. Both the programming cartridge and the battery pack mass 0.1
kilograms. The food converter itself costs 2500 smu (this includes the cost of one programming pack for a species of the purchaser's choice), programming
cartridges cost 50 smu each, and battery packs cost 5 smu each. A recharge for the battery pack costs 1 smu and takes 1 turn. The food converter has 20
points of impact and energy protection; 10 points of damage penetrating this armor will destroy the unit. Both battery pack and programming cartridge are
enclosed by the armor.

    Glare Goggles: Variable polarization goggles, used to eliminate the dangers of dazzle and/or snowblindness. These units are solar powered, and allow the
user to select any modifier to glare factor desired. A character wearing these goggles selects the desired adjustment to dazzle probability and then simply
wears the goggles; they will automatically adjust to conditions of low light levels (so there is no visibility loss on entering a dark-ened room while
wearing the goggles). Mass is 0.1 kilograms, cost is 10 smu per pair. Multispecies -- adjustable for different facial configurations. 10 hit point devices
(no armor protection, either impact or energy).

    Glare Lenses (Contact variety): These are variable polarization contact lenses, used to eliminate the dangers of dazzle and/or snowblindness. They are
pre-set for a given dazzle probability modifier, and must be custom made for each individual. They will lighten in darkness and darken when exposed to
ultraviolet light (or any other specified type of light); thus, as with glare goggles, there is no visibility loss encountered on entering a darkened room
while wearing the glare lenses.

    Glare lenses offer only three advantages over glare goggles: (1) they are inconspicuous, (2) they are easier to carry, and (3) they are not the ugly face
covering that glare goggles are. Humans diplomats have commonly adopted the glare lens for their use on the Central Worlds of the Hegemony; even without snow
or ice to reflect the sun glare, the normal light levels on an Altani, Bjoran, or H'Reli world will blind a Human in a remarka-bly short period of time. Mass
 is negligible, cost is 125 smu per pair. Single species design -- custom made for each individual.

    Battery Heater: A portable, electrically powered heat source. Batteries last 36 hours and must then be either replaced or recharged (1 turn, 0.1 smu cost
to recharge). The battery heater masses 1 kilogram, and will heat a small (1 Human sized person) cabin or dugout +10o C above ambient. Additional heaters may
 be used to increase the temperature or the volume heated. Battery heaters cost 10 smu, and have 10 point impact and energy protection. If 10 points of
 damage penetrates the armor, the unit is destroyed.

    Inertial Guidance Unit: This device (commonly referred to as an Inertracker, after the tradename of the best and most common unit) is used to navigate on
a single world. It provides a dis-play of position relative to a given starting point. Once it is prepared for use by setting the start point it will display
the current position on the planetary surface (latitude, longitude, and altitude changes relative to its starting point) with an accuracy of plus or minus
100 meters. It must, however, be left in operation continuously or it will "lose fix" and require a reset of the zero position. Using a set of accurate maps
on which the starting point for the uni has been marked, navigation becomes child's play; units sold for use on a particular world are typically pre-loaded
with maps for that world. Mass is 1.5 kilograms exclusive of battery pack and map cartridge. Battery packs mass 0.1 kilograms, and will run the unit for 4
terrestrial years (1461 days). A map cartridge masses 0.1 kilograms. The inertial guidance unit costs 800 smu, a map cartridge for a single world costs 25
smu, and a battery pack costs 5 smu. A recharge for the battery pack takes 10 turns using a standard portable generator; recharges are typically available
for 4 smu. The Inertracker has 20 points of impact and energy protection; 10 points of damage penetrating this armor will destroy the unit. Both battery pack
and map cartridge are enclosed by the armor.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 24 OF 28)
    Sled: On many newly colonized worlds, animal drawn sleds are used for cross-country travel over ice and snow. On many more civilized worlds, they are
used for sport. But on fledgling colonies, it is common to use animals (which don't break down or need artificial fuel sources, and reproduce themselves) in
place of machines (which, at first, must be imported at ruinous cost).

    The dog sled of old Earth (First Century AE and earlier) is but one typical design. Commonly, sleds have a single Human sized driver and can carry up to
two Human-sized passengers or 200 kilograms of cargo (treat each passenger as 100 kilograms of cargo). Such sleds mass 10 kilograms empty, and cost 50 smu.
To draw the sled, one or more animals are needed. The ENC load for drawing the sled is halved (as it is being dragged, rather than carried) and the result is
 divided evenly among the sled animals. k or run himself).

    Larger sleds have greater cargo capacities and cost more. The standard cargo of 300 kg (one driver + 200 kg cargo) costs 10 smu. The cost of the sled is
directly proportional to the cargo capacity, as is its mass. Sleds have 10 points of protection against impact and energy damage; 10 points of penetrating
damage will destroy a sled. These figures are independent of sled size. Made from primitive materials in the field, a sled will mass twice as much. To make
such a sled requires the use of the Arctic Survival skill and 1 hour per 5 kilograms mass of sled. Training sled animals is a persuasion skill (as per
Riding). Trained sled animals are valuable on any world where such animals are used for transport (or sport). A typical animal will cost 10 smu (though this
may vary depending upon the "pedigree" of the animal, the social value placed on the animals, and any of a thousand other factors).

                        ENCOUNTERS AND EVENTS
    In any Other Suns adventure, the Referee should be largely re-sponsible for regulating the flow of events and encounters, to ensure the smooth
progression from initial situation to final resolution. For the most part, encounters and events which occur along the way should be planned by the Referee
to shape the course of the scenario.

    There are times, however, when random encounters or events are worthwhile. They can be used to add an element of uncertainty in
