URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/X0KdY32IZds
TITLE: Other Suns : 20 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Friday, 12 October 1990 15:13:26 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.19 ------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero. This gaming material is distributed on a shareware basis. If you do not use the material you owe the author
nothing. If you do use it please pay him what you think it is worth at a fair price because it took a damn lot of work to develop and playtest. The USmail
address is:
    Niall Shapero
    2536 Short Ave
    Los Angeles
    CA 90066
    USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:(213)822-6729
Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will pass them on to Niall.
----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
    Wind can kill in subzero temperatures. The speed of arctic wind can make all the difference between life and death, if a character is caught in the open.
Wind velocities should be determined with snowfall for each 8 hour period. The Wind Velocity Table is used to determine average velocity and also whether the
winds are steady or gusty. Wind gusts will reach twice the specified velocity 1D6 times within each 2 hour period for 20 minutes each time. Wind speed and
type is checked even if the weather is constant over more than one eight hour period.

    Wind Effects: The principal effect of wind is to alter the "wind chill factor". Winds can lower the apparent air temperature dramatically. Even
    comparatively mild temperatures can be made lethal by high winds. Details are covered in a later section on temperature. In addition, high winds can pose
    a threat to air vehicles flying below the cloud layer, and can whip up snow to hamper visibility and cause savage drifts.

                        MOVEMENT ON SNOW AND ICE
    Both snow and ice pose special problems for characters attempting to move under their own power. The speed and safety of such movement depends on many
factors, as outlined below.

    The Basic Movement Rate: For cross-country travel on foot, much use is made of the standard Basic Movement rate which measures the average speed of a
character. The Basic Movement rate varies from race to race, and, like the melee movement rates in Other Suns, is a function of length, method of locomotion,
and movement class.

    The basic movement rates of existing intelligent races have been calculated below. They are based on the averages for each race; the player or Referee
who wishes to calculate an individual's exact Basic Movement rate may do so using the formula presented later in this section. For Altani, Dakti (stages I
and III), H'Reli, Humans, Sanchenzii and Uquoi, allow 30 kilometers per day (3.750 kph). For Korli and Dakti (stage II, walking) allow 20 kilometers per day
(2.500 kph). For Skiltaire allow 25 kilometers per day (3.125 kph). For Bjora allow 50 kilometers per day (6.250 kph). Allow 60 kilometers per day (7.500
kph) for Ata'a, and for Dakti (stage II, flying) allow 200 kilometers per day (25.000 kph).

    If calculating the basic movement rate for a new race or animal (such as a riding or pack beast) the following information must be known:

    Length: the average (expected) LEN stat is generally used, though specifics may be substituted instead.

    Locomotory Mode: (bipedal, quadrupedal, flier, or other): deter-mined by the description of the being in question.

    Movement Class: Most creatures have a Movement Class (MC) of 8. Ata'a and Skiltaire have MCs of 12 and 10 respectively (both being treated as quadrupeds).

    Length and Locomotory Mode are cross-indexed into the table in section 3.3.2 in Other Suns to determine the Meters Traveled per Movement Point expended.
To determine the Basic Movement rate in kilometers per day, multiply Movement Class by Meters Traveled per Movement Point expended and multiply the result by
 1.25. This produces a 30 kilometer per day Basic Movement rate for the average Human (in agreement with the basic rates given in section 3.3.1.1 in Other
 Suns). This rate assumes 8 hours spent walking each day -- so determine the Basic Movement rate in kilometers per hour, simply divide this value by 8.

    Using the Basic Movement Rate: When traveling across country under normal conditions of terrain and climate, characters may move at the full value of
their basic movement rate and suffer minimal problems from exertion (the movement is considered Light Activity for purposes of Endurance losses -- see
Endurance). Movement at this rate is considered to be broken by occasional rest stops, and to be, on the whole, steady but not particularly fast or strenuous.
Characters may make a forced march of half again the Basic Movement rate (60 kilometers in 12 hours for the average Human); however, a forced march
constitutes Moderate Activity, and so costs more Endurance. Characters may also set a running pace of 2.5 times their normal Melee Movement rate (see section
 5.3.80 for details on the Running skill) but this will constitute an extreme drain on Endurance.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 8 OF 28)
    When moving using the Basic Movement rate, any of three scales may be used. Increments of twenty minutes are useful when detailed activities are in order.
Increments of one hour are particularly versatile, and recommended for most standard situa-tions. Increments of eight hours may be used to regulate long
marches when very little is happening; these increments should be tied into the mapping and weather processes discussed previously. In any event, actual
distance covered depends upon speed and travel time; endurance losses and other problems can be factored into the game according to the scale used. It is
perfectly permissible, even desirable, to shift freely from one scale to another as the needs of the scenario direct. The various movement and endurance
tables in this booklet are designed to handle each time scale to ease the bookkeeping burden.

    Snow and Ice Movement: The basic movement rate assumes fairly easy terrain and a lack of complicating factors which might slow movement down. Snow and
ice are treacherous surfaces to traverse and they slow down foot movement considerably. Snow hampers rapid movement and limits the ability of the character
to run, and sometimes masks hazards such as rocks or depressions. Ice cover also provides the added risk of uncertain foot-ing.

    The Movement Effects Chart is used to regulate the speed with which characters move over various types of terrain. Multipliers are listed for various
combinations of terrain and movement type; these multipliers are applied to the Basic Movement Rate to yield a movement rate over that particular terrain
type in the specified mode. The chart also gives the endurance cost of movement.

    Several entries are provided showing movement rates using special types of arctic equipment, as follows:

    Snowshoes: Snowshoes are broad, flat, webbed frames designed to distribute an individual's weight over snow, keeping him from becoming bogged down in
    deep snow. They are fairly easy to use. Characters using snowshoes apply the modifiers shown to the basic movement rate. Snowshoes are tiring to use, as
    mentioned in the Snowshoe skill described earlier.

    Skis: The use of skis in cross-country travel is one of the most efficient methods of movement in arctic conditions known to any sophont, though some are
    better adapted to it than others (either through biology or cultural background). Skis will not work in the absence of adequate snow cover, but in
    shallow or deep snow (or, less effectively, on bare ice) skis make rapid movement fairly easy. There is a possibility of accident, but if the skier is
    cautious, it is a minimal one.

    Movement on skis is not subject to the character's Basic Movement Rate. Instead, maximum ski movement speeds are shown in the Ski Movement Chart, with
    speeds being primarily dependent on the degree of slope. Most cross-country skiing is done over fairly level ground, but the Referee may indicate when
    periods of downhill or uphill travel take place, and alter maximum speeds accordingly. Truly rugged country is the realm of a separate forthcoming
    supplement/adventure, Mountain World, and is not dealt with here. Over bare ice, maximum speeds are cut in half.

    Within the limits set by the ski movement chart, characters have considerable control over their actual speeds. The maximum safe speed that any skier may
    move is his percentage skill in skiing (as limited by his Arctic Travel skill) in kilometers per hour. Thus with an Arctic Travel skill of 70% and a
    Skiing skill of 45%, a character could safely ski at 45 kilometers per hour. A skier must make his skiing roll MINUS 1% per kph traveled above his safe
    speed for each ten turn (20 minute) period or fraction thereof that he skis above his safe speed; the skiing roll may be modified further by severe
    conditions (see the Movement Effects Charts for terrain and cover for modifiers). If the resultant skill value (skill as limited by Arctic travel and as
    modified by speed and conditions) is still 30% or better, the roll need not be made (though it may still be attempted). If the roll for overspeed is
    attempted and failed, in addition to any damage resulting from the resultant fall, a temporary 1D3 END expendi-ture is taken for that 20 minute period
    due to exertion.

    Moving downhill, the problem is to control and limit speed. In such a case, the skill level provides the allowable reduction in speed from the maximum.
    For each 1% in skiing, the adventurer may reduce his actual speed by no more than 1 kilometer per hour from the maximum speed given for the slope. The
    maximum safe speed described above then applies.

    It should be noted that the table of speeds given for skiing reflects optimum conditions; the Referee may freely vary the allowable speeds by up to 50%
    in either direction to handle varying circumstances or situations.

    Skates: Ice skates can be extremely useful, in the hands of skilled characters, for movement across wide expanses of fairly level ice.

                         ICE WORLD I (PART 9 OF 28)
    The basic movement rate for characters on skates is set by the character's skill: allow 1 kph per 2% skill (or fraction thereof). Speed can be doubled
    for a brief period (to 1 kph per 1% skill) but the Endurance expenditure is increased thirty-fold (a skill roll is required once per 2 minute interval,
    with 1D3 END loss and a fall per failed roll).

    Tumbles and Falls: In the event of a failed skill roll, a fall has occurred sometime during the time period under consideration.
