URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/6EyM8oCGP2g
TITLE: Other Suns : 22 (sic, 21) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Monday, 15 October 1990 16:04:54 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.21 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero. This gaming material is distributed on a shareware basis. If you do not use the material you owe the author
nothing. If you do use it please pay him what you think it is worth at a fair price because it took a damn lot of work to develop and playtest. The USmail
address is:
    Niall Shapero
    2536 Short Ave
    Los Angeles
    CA 90066
    USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:(213)822-6729
Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will pass them on to Niall.
----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
    Aircraft: Aircraft (including primitive aircraft of all kinds, contragravity vehicles, shuttlecraft and spacecraft) are able to avoid the effects of
    snow, ice, and the terrain itself when moving from one point to another. They are not, however, com-pletely safe from the hazards of arctic travel.

    Take-offs and landings (as any pilot will tell you) are the most dangerous events in any flight. Landings in arctic conditions require that a skill roll
    be made (in either vehicle operations or piloting, as appropriate to the type of vehicle and to the skills of the pilot); this skill is limited by the
    pilot's Arctic Travel skill. Take-offs with primitive aircraft also require that this skill roll be made (in both take-offs and landings with primitive
    aircraft the applicable skill reduced by 1% per kph wind speed). Contragravity vehicles of all varieties (grav cars, shuttles, and spacecraft) are far
    more capable of slow, majestic, and more importantly SAFE take-offs; if the pilot's skill is at least 30%, subject to a -1% modifier per 5 kph of wind,
    then no skill roll need be made. Landings in CG vehicles are somewhat more risky -- the skill roll (limited by Arctic travel, and reduced by 1% per 5 kph
    wind speed) must be made for a safe landing.

    During each flight, the flight mode of the aircraft must be specified -- either High or NOE (Nape Of the Earth) -- at all times. High mode represents
    flight above the overcast or cloud layer (if any) and above all surface wind effects; such flight is never exposed to wind or weather problems. NOE mode
    involves flight below any overcast or cloud layer -- it involves flying at the treetop level (dangerous in the extreme at high speed).

    High mode flight over even the thickest cloud cover does not prevent observation of ground conditions. On Earth in the First Century AE, the development
    of synthetic aperture radar (SAR) first allowed Man to see deep into Earth's oceans, and far into the soil of Earth itself; the successor sensor systems
    of the Eighteenth Century of the Atomic Era are no more troubled by cloud cover and fog than were the earlier SAR systems. Detection of non-metallic or
    small collections of organic materials (such as living creatures) is not, however, practical using these penetrating sensor systems. Thus individual's in
    High mode flying aircraft could have some difficulty locating people on the ground.

    Flight in or through a cloud layer, overcast, or fog must be done on instrument alone: the vehicular operations skill is reduced by 30% to represent the
    difficulty in shifting from VFR (visual flight rules) to IFR (instrument flight rules). Spacecraft pilots are taught from the very beginning to rely on
    their instruments -- accordingly there is no skill penalty in flying through cloud using the Piloting skill.

    Attempting to fly NOE is dangerous and difficult, trying to do so at high speeds can be suicidal. For each 10 kph (or fraction thereof) at which the
    vehicle is being flown, reduce the flight skill (either vehicular operations or piloting as appropriate) by 1%. This roll must be made for each 20
    minutes spent in NOE mode. During landing and takeoff, insufficient time is spent in NOE mode (either by aircraft or contragravity using vehicles) to
    require the above roll be made.

    Personal Flight: Characters who fly using natural wings, powered suits, or other personal flight equipment always do so in NOE mode. The applicable skill
    level is reduced by 1% per kph of wind when taking off or landing. Natural fliers apply this modifier to their flight skill (a 30% base manipulation
    skill for such natural fliers) while airborne; powered suits, and other similar small massive "vehicles" do not -- although both types apply the
    aforementioned skill modifier on landing and takeoff.

    The speeds given for flight are in terms of air speed. To determine the true ground speed it is necessary to add in the air speed. To do this, first plot
the character's movement assuming no wind, then move the character in the direction the wind would carry him a distance equal to the wind speed times the
duration of the character's flight movement.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 12 OF 28)
                        SURVIVAL IN THE ARCTIC WILDERNESS
    The following rules simulate the effects of exertion and low temperatures on characters working in arctic conditions.

    Endurance and Exertion:
    The rules in this section are intended to extend the basic rules on endurance and encumbrance presented in Other Suns. They are not intended so much to
alter the original rules as they are to expand them, making it possible to judge the effects of cross- country travel and other strenuous activities in more
detail.

    Endurance: Various activities cause the character to lose endur-ance points on a temporary basis. (The effects of reducing a character's END to zero or
below are described in detail in Section 3.6.2 of Other Suns.) Endurance gains and losses should be regulated on the basis of 20-minute (10 turn, 100 melee
round) or 1-hour (30 turn, 300 melee round) periods.

    Activities: There are four general levels of exertion possible for characters: Light, Moderate, Heavy and Very Heavy. Light activity includes any form of
non-demanding work, such as most forms of driving (whether as driver or passenger), any desk or console-bound job, and so forth. Light activity also includes
such work as normal walking pace movement (30 kilometers/8 hour day for average humans). Moderate activity represents the physi-cal exertion required to
travel at a fast pace over roughly level ground (as in the forced march speed -- 5 kilometers/hour for the average Human). Heavy and Very Heavy activities
are progressively more tiring, and more difficult.

    Virtually any actions or activities can be classified as one of these four types. The Exertion Table shows how each sort takes its toll on the
character's endurance over the course of both 20 minute and hourly time periods.

    Procedure: The Referee may use whichever time period seems most suitable. The nature of the activity undertaken in the time period is determined, either
from the movement tables (if the character is traveling) or by using common sense -- pitching a tent in open ground could be considered to be Moderate activity,
where digging a trench in permafrost is more likely to be Very Heavy. These are Referee judgment calls, usually, but should always be consistent with the
situation, the expressed intentions of the group, and the abilities and capabilities of the charac-ters themselves. Once the activity level is known,
endurance points appropriate to the activity and time period are deducted.

    It is suggested that the Referee keep a record of each new activity and the endurance cost that he has assigned to that activity together with the
conditions under which it is performed. This will greatly aid the Referee in maintaining campaign consistency.

    In addition to activity effects on endurance, 2D4 END is expended for each hour for each 10% excess encumbrance (see Section 3.1 of Other Suns). To ease
the integration of 20-minute and one hour time scales, it is suggested that half of this END expenditure be taken in the first 20-minute period of each hour
spent over-encumbered, and half in the last 20-minute period.

    A character who spends 20 minutes resting (doing nothing at all) recovers 1D6 END points. When attempting to rest as a passenger in a moving vehicle or
in other circumstances which the Referee judges to be distracting or disturbing, either a WIL x 5 roll or a Control of Self skill roll must be made in order
for the character to rest properly and recover any END. Endurance can never be recovered beyond the character's initial END level.

    If at the end of any time period, the character's END is less than zero, the character is considered to be Fatigued, and he is subject to physical damage
(see Section 3.6.2 in Other Suns for details).

    It should be noted that endurance loses are taken only against the character's total endurance, not against the endurance values for each body location.

    Optional Rule: A Referee may wish to allow a character to remain conscious despite his total endurance having been reduced below zero. For each 20-minute
period for which a roll of WIL or less on 1D100 or on a successful Control of Self skill roll, the character may remain conscious. The character is not,
however, able to rest in this condition -- hence no END may be recovered during this 20-minute period, even if the character is resting.

    Optional Rule: Exertion and Air Pressure: The given levels of END expenditure assume that the activities are performed by the character in an atmosphere
to which he, she, or it is acclimated. Differences in atmospheric pressure or, more importantly, in the partial pressure of oxygen in the atmosphere, can be
of major importance in determining any individual's ability to function; work in thinner than normal atmospheres can be fatiguing, and can be dangerous until
 the character becomes accustomed to the lower partial pressure of oxygen. [Historical note: Human astronauts from the old United States of America during
 the First Century of the Atomic Era commonly flew missions breathing pure oxygen at 1/5 normal atmospheric pressure; it is the partial pressure of oxygen that
 is important, not the overall atmospheric pressure.]

    Roll 6D6 to determine the percent of the atmosphere that is oxygen. 760 mm Hg equals 1 atmosphere, so determine the partial pressure of oxygen in the
atmosphere, multiply 760 by the plane-tary atmospheric pressure, and multiply this by the result of the 6D6 roll divided by 100.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 13 OF 28)
    The endurance costs shown in the table assume that the character is in an atmosphere with an Oxygen partial pressure comparable to that for his species
(i.e. 160 mm Hg, for humans and in fact for most of the races of the Hegemony). When operating on a world with an atmosphere poorer in oxygen, the endurance
costs of activities are modified as described below.

    At partial pressures below 60 mm Hg, hypoxia sets in (below 20 mm
