URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/qgB25T9sGSs
TITLE: Other Suns : 29 (sic 28) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, 16 October 1990 15:28:09 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.28 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero. This gaming material is distributed on a shareware basis. If you do not use the material you owe the author
nothing. If you do use it please pay him what you think it is worth at a fair price because it took a damn lot of work to develop and playtest. The USmail
address is:
    Niall Shapero
    2536 Short Ave
    Los Angeles
    CA 90066
    USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:(213)822-6729
Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will pass them on to Niall.

---------------- end of preamble -------------------------------------------
the game -- is a given event important to the ultimate resolution of the original problem, or is it a "mere" random occurrence? In addition, random
encounters or events can be used when the Referee is at a loss for a logical next step in the adventure, and they can be used to create a series of
obstacles to be overcome where no hard and fast planned adventure actually exists.

    Any or all of these reasons can contribute to a decision to use a set of random encounter tables. A sample set, tailored to use within an arctic setting,
are included in the tables to follow.

                        ENCOUNTER ROLLS:
    When a party is traveling, one encounter roll should be made (on 1D100) once each hour, and the indicated result implemented. Tables are keyed according
to terrain type and snow cover, with modifiers applied based on the current apparent air temperature.

    When a group has halt[Y,n]? an unexpected crevasse.
    Treat no snow cover or hard pack only snow cover as "spotty" snow cover in these tables.

                        ENCOUNTER AND EVENT DESCRIPTIONS:
    Whiteout: Whiteout is a condition which occurs when ground and sky are both so white as to be indistinct from one another, and visibility drops to almost
nothing. Periods of whiteout generally accompany heavy storms and/or high winds (and whiteout can be mandated by the Visibility Table results as well as by
Encounter Table results), but can happen as an incidental event as well. In whiteout conditions, movement guided by the unaided eye becomes impossible; both
vehicles and individuals must stop for a period of 1D3 hours until visibility improves. If active sensor systems are available (e.g. in the powered suits)
whiteout conditions can be ignored.

    Avalanche Zone: Avalanche Zones are areas where there is a high potential for a mass of snow to be dislodged from above, flowing down mountainsides and
into valleys below like a tidal wave. Actually, there are several distinct types of avalanche, each discussed separately below. The Referee should select
which type occurs, keeping local conditions and the information noted here in mind.

    Wet Avalanche: Wet avalanches usually occur when the temperatures rise above 0o C. The deep snow covering the mountain slopes then melts, loses adhesion,
and slides. Wet Avalanches move at speeds of 90-100 kph (88+2D6), often carrying destruction for as far as 3 kilometers before losing momentum. There is a 1%
 base chance per hour of a Wet Avalanche occurring once pre-avalanche conditions develop. Add 5% to this chance if the snow is in direct sunlight, add 5% if
 the ambient air temperature is above -5o C, and add 15% if there are loud noises such as explosions during the hour. These modifiers are cumulative, and in
 the event of repeated explosions or other loud noises over the course of the hour, the +15% modifier should (at the Referee's judgment) be added more than
 once. An Arctic Survival roll guarantees recognition of potential avalanche conditions in an area, and allows the characters to take appropriate action so
 as to avoid being caught in the avalanche should it occur.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 25 OF 28)
    If a character is caught in a wet avalanche, he will take impact damage twice equal to the Tumbling damage corresponding to a tumble at the speed of the
avalanche (this is between 6D6 and 7D6). As per Tumbles (described earlier) he may attempt a Jumping roll and LUC rolls to reduce the damage taken. These
rolls are made against the first damage roll (corresponding to the damage done when the avalanche first strikes the character); he may then attempt LUC rolls
 to reduce the second damage roll (corresponding to the damage done as the avalanche bounces him against the terrain as it slows). A Jumping roll may not be
 attempted during the "slow down" phase; it is assumed that the character's tumbling ability is neutralized by the mass of snow and debris about him. THE
 VALUE OF PROTECTIVE ARMOR IS DEDUCTED FROM THE DAMAGE DONE BY AN AVALANCHE IN EACH PHASE (BOTH INITIAL IMPACT AND FINAL SLOWDOWN).

    If LUC roll is made (as a percentage), a character engulfed in a wet avalanche will end on the surface. Otherwise, he will be trapped under the snow,
with sufficient air for 1D100 turns of life. If a trapped character is not retrieved (or does not extri-cate himself) from beneath the snow before his air
supply gives out, he will die. An Arctic Survival, or a Spot Hidden roll limited by Arctic Survival (both rolls may be attempted) will locate a victim
trapped beneath the snow by eye alone; if instruments or telepathy are used, the character should be found effortlessly. Once found, retrieval should be a
matter dependent only upon depth of burial and equipment available for excavation.

    Dry Avalanche: Dry avalanches are caused when accumulations of snow become excessive, and they can move at speeds of up to 175 kph for 5 kilometers or
more (speed is 1D100+74 kph). There is a 1% base chance per hour of a Wet Avalanche occurring once pre-avalanche conditions develop. Add 5% to this chance
for each 20 centimeters of new snow accumulated in the zone, and add 30% if there are loud noises such as explosions during the hour. These modifiers are
cumulative, and in the event of repeated explosions or other loud noises over the course of the hour, the +30% modifier should (at the Referee's judgment) be
added more than once.

    An Arctic Survival roll guarantees recognition of potential avalanche conditions in an area, and allows the characters to take appropriate action so as
to avoid being caught in the ava-lanche should it occur.

    If a character is trapped in a dry avalanche, damage is determined as per wet avalanches (save that the higher speed of the dry avalanche is used). THE
VALUE OF PROTECTIVE ARMOR IS DEDUCTED FROM THE DAMAGE DONE BY AN AVALANCHE IN EACH PHASE (BOTH INITIAL IMPACT AND FINAL SLOWDOWN).

    White Death: The "white death" is an extremely rare form of dry avalanche, a variant occurring only when the snow is an unusually fine powder. If all
snow is fine powder, there is a 1% chance of a dry avalanche being of the "white death" variety.

    Individuals trapped underneath the snow by a "white death" avalanche will be trapped without air; if they do not have a sealed air source, he is in
danger of suffocation (see Section 14.2.1 Drowning, in Other Suns for details regarding resolution of suffocation situations).

    Other Considerations: A vehicle caught be an avalanche will be subjected to the full damage of the avalanche, and individuals within the vehicle take
whatever damage remains after armor protection of the vehicle is accounted for (their own armor still deducts from damage taken).

    Characters will almost invar projecting above an otherwise level surface. As water froze into ice, pressure forced more water together, and upwards to
form the ridge, if freezing was fast enough. A pressure ridge can be several meters in height.

    Though individuals can climb a ridge (and aircraft fly over it), ground vehicles are blocked by these terrain features. If de-sired, the vehicles can
detour and search for the end of the ridge, moving parallel to it in one direction or another. If this option is chosen, the Referee should roll 6D6 for the
number of kilometers the ridge extends (roll twice -- once for each direction). An Arctic Survival skill roll made allows the characters to know which
direction provides the shorter detour; a clean action allows them to know the approximate length of the detour.

    Alternatively, the group may seek to create a gap in the ridge. This requires that 1D10 x 1000 points of damage be done to a given section of the ridge
(either through explosives, energy weapons, or brute physical strength). If this damage is done, the result is a breach wide enough for any large ground vehicle.

    The Referee may freely designate the work as being more less difficult than indicated above (especially when the group is small or possessed only of
extremely limited amounts of ammuni-tion), or can choose to designate the task as impossible. Hovercraft, like normal ground vehicles, are blocked by
pressure ridges.

    Polynya: A polynya is a gap in the ice, either open water or only thinly covered by ice. Polynyas provide open access to the water below, allowing
fishing, water collection, or even arctic diving. If the temperature is much below 0o C, polynyas will tend to close (freezing over completely in 1D10
hours); if the tempera-ture is above freezing, polynyas become wider with time.

                        ICE WORLD I (PART 26 OF 28)
    Rockfall: The thawing of snow and ice binding loose rocks togeth-er occasionally causes them to plunge down from above. When a rockfall occurs, roll 1D6
to determine the number of rocks dropped on each individual. Assume 1 kilogram rocks and a fall of 2D10 meters (damage is resolved as per Section 14.2.2.1
Dropped Objects in Other Suns). A successful Arctic Survival skill roll will allow an individual to spot potential rockfall conditions.

    Dodge (rolled as a percentage) will allow a character to avoid being struck by one rock, Martial Evade may be used to avoid one rock (per 100% Evade
skill or fraction thereof).

    Suncups: Suncups are irregular depressions in snow and ice formed by uneven melting of snow in sunlight. Movement through an area where suncups are
encountered is at 75% of normal. Skiers and snowmobilers proceed with a -5% skill modifier through suncups. The suncups last until superseded by a new event
or a different terrain type.

    Icebergs: Icebergs are large mountains of ice which break free of surrounding pack ice and drift free. When an iceberg result first occurs, the
characters will find themselves isolated on a floe or
