URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/qT6t41ODJWs
TITLE: Other Suns : 15 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, 10 October 1990 15:35:30 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.15 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero.  This gaming material is
distributed on a shareware basis.  If you do not use the material you
owe the author nothing.  If you do use it please pay him what you
think it is worth at a fair price becasue it took a damn lot of work
to develop and playtest.  The USmail address is:

Niall Shapero
2536 Short Ave
Los Angeles CA 90066
USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:
(213)822-6729

Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will
pass them on to Niall.

----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
   Official Truth
   Novaya Amerika
   July 8, 1802 AE (campaign date roughly equivalent to 19 May 1986)
   
   COMMONALITY NAVY RE-ENLISTMENT RATES DOWN
   
   by Alirona Nicolaevna, Staff Reporter
   
   SOUTH  PORT--Early  this morning,  mates and offspring  of  naval 
   personnel  of the 369th Assault Group will fill the observatories 
   outside  South  Port to catch their first glimpse of  the  attack 
   carrier Zverev and its escorts the Manitoba,  Nemesis, and Cygnus 
   since they left on routine patrol of the DMZ in early January  of 
   1799.
   
   The 369th, its mission extended from twelve months to over forty-
   two  by increased client state conflicts in the Zone,  will bring 
   home 8,295 navy personnel.   Several pilots off the Zverev landed 
   earlier  this  week  at South Pole Base in advance  of  the  main 
   force.
   
   Three Year Patrol
   
   More than its crew,  the Zverev brings home a growing problem for 
   the Navy:  How can the Navy persuade its personnel to stay in the 
   service when they are commonly required to leave home for upwards 
   of three years at a time?
   
   "This  isn't the Suzrainty," said Commonality Representative John 
   Towers,  "Maybe  the three-year separation is getting to  be  too 
   long  for the softer citizens of Novaya Amerika and the Commonal-
   ity."
   
   The First Secretary of the Novaya Amerikan Navy, Mikhail Nicolae-
   vitch  Bakurin,  said that pressures arising in the home  against 
   re-enlistment  has become a significant problem in his effort  to 
   find enough personnel to provide the 4,000-ship NA Naval "contri-
   bution" dictated by Commonality Directive 1209.  "We've definite-
   ly seen the effect of this in the last ten years," he said in  an 
   interview.   "Since  the Hainite civil war shifted the burden  of 
   frontier  defense  to the Commonality,  patrol times  have  grown 
   steadily;  and  the  wives  of our men in uniform have  not  been 
   pleased by the consequences of our added responsibilities."
   
   To ease the Navy's burden on family men,  Bakurin is working with 
   Commonality  Representative  Towers in trying to hold   down  the 
   length  of time ships are on patrol.  But the NA and  Commonality 
   Navies'  growing   commitments come first,  ahead of  the  family 
   lives of Fleet personnel.
   
   As  a  consequence,  said Admiral Sherisa  Linehoffer,  NA  Fleet 
   Commander, the number one reason for leaving the Navy "is without 
   a doubt family separation."
   
   Official Truth
   Novaya Amerika
   July 8, 1802 AE (campaign date roughly equivalent to 19 May 1986)
   
   COMMONALITY NAVY RE-ENLISTMENT RATES DOWN
   
   by Alirona Nicolaevna, Staff Reporter
   
   SOUTH  PORT--Early  this morning,  mates and offspring  of  naval 
   personnel  of the 369th Assault Group will fill the observatories 
   outside  South  Port to catch their first glimpse of  the  attack 
   carrier Zverev and its escorts the Manitoba,  Nemesis, and Cygnus 
   since they left on routine patrol of the DMZ in early January  of 
   1799.
   
   The 369th, its mission extended from twelve months to over forty-
   two  by increased client state conflicts in the Zone,  will bring 
   home 8,295 navy personnel.   Several pilots off the Zverev landed 
   earlier  this  week  at South Pole Base in advance  of  the  main 
   force.
   
   Three Year Patrol
   
   More than its crew,  the Zverev brings home a growing problem for 
   the Navy:  How can the Navy persuade its personnel to stay in the 
   service when they are commonly required to leave home for upwards 
   of three years at a time?
   
   "This  isn't the Suzrainty," said Commonality Representative John 
   Towers,  "Maybe  the three-year separation is getting to  be  too 
   long  for the softer citizens of Novaya Amerika and the Commonal-
   ity."
   
   The First Secretary of the Novaya Amerikan Navy, Mikhail Nicolae-
   vitch  Bakurin,  said that pressures arising in the home  against 
   re-enlistment  has become a significant problem in his effort  to 
   find enough personnel to provide the 4,000-ship NA Naval "contri-
   bution" dictated by Commonality Directive 1209.  "We've definite-
   ly seen the effect of this in the last ten years," he said in  an 
   interview.   "Since  the Hainite civil war shifted the burden  of 
   frontier  defense  to the Commonality,  patrol times  have  grown 
   steadily;  and  the  wives  of our men in uniform have  not  been 
   pleased by the consequences of our added responsibilities."
   
   To ease the Navy's burden on family men,  Bakurin is working with 
   Commonality  Representative  Towers in trying to hold   down  the 
   length  of time ships are on patrol.  But the NA and  Commonality 
   Navies'  growing   commitments come first,  ahead of  the  family 
   lives of Fleet personnel.
   
   As  a  consequence,  said Admiral Sherisa  Linehoffer,  NA  Fleet 
   Commander, the number one reason for leaving the Navy "is without 
   a doubt family separation."
   

   86,000 single parents
   
   It  is only in the last decade that long deployments have  become 
   routine,  Brevna said.   Now,  during a normal ten year tour,  an 
   Enforcement Navy man can expect two and possibly three three-year 
   patrols.   Some  Naval  personnel return to see a child  for  the 
   first time when he is spending his first year in school.
   
   And  even during a Navy man's time at  home,  frequent  planetary 
   space  training missions mean that he probably will spend half of 
   that   time off-planet as well.   The Zverev,  which  returns  to 
   Novaya  Amerika this week after an forty-two month patrol,  spent 
   only  three  months in Novaya orbit in the  year  preceeding  its 
   departure.
   
   Training missions prove particularly frustrating for the crews  of  
   ships  assigned  to defense of Novaya Amerika.   They  may  spend 
   months in Novaya system space -- out of touch with their families 
   but still within sight of their homeworld.
   
   Separation  may have less of an impact on Navy families  than  it  
   has on others.  Professor Valentina Dubrovna, a mathematical psy-
   chologist at the 2 City Akademy Nauk, said that military families 
   "have  a more rigid  sense of duty and obligation," and they  are 
   more  likely  to accept  a spouse's absence if necessary for  the 
   continued safety of the motherworld.
   
   An  in-system  fighter pilot with two teen-age children  insisted 
   that,  despite his three extended deployments during his 15 years 
   in the Navy, "I don't think I've neglected my children."
   
   But  he has paid a price.   The officer,  who could not be  named  
   under Navy security ground rules because he had served aboard the  
   Zverev during its deployment in the DMZ,  has been home with  his 
   children two years out of the last ten,  and missed the births of 
   both children.
   
   "He  wasn't really involved," his wife said.  "These kinds of ex-
   periences I definitely have deep regrets about.  Not  resentment, 
   but regret. He has missed that."
   
   Bakurin said the problem of finding able-bodied sailors "has been  
   with navies since the beginning of time."
   
   "Back on old Earth, impressing merchant marine personnel into the 
   Navies  was  a common practice," he said,  referring to  the  2nd 
   century pre-atomic British Navy practice.   "We have better tech-
   niques now."
   
   One of these techniques was to limit the duration of far patrols.  
   In the last decade, when patrol durations crept up to four years, 
   the  Navy  has  faced a severe shortage of  senior  enlisted  and 
   engineering  specialist  personnel -- considered crucial  to  the 
   operation  of  a ship.   The Navy has tried  to  persuade  needed 
   personnel  to stay by offering re-enlistment bonuses (a  practice 
   frowned  upon under Combine and Althing law,  and forbidden under 
   Suzrainty and Directorate law).
   
   "But  bonuses failed," Admiral Linehoffer recalled.   "The  basic 
   problem  remained  -- 'Daddy  was  out THERE for  three  or  four 
   years.'"
   
   When the superdreadnought Hirata returned from a five year patrol 
   at the edge of the DMZ, Linehoffer said, "retention was only 45%, 
   morale was terrible.   Captain Shrenovskii resigned,  along  with 
   half  his  bridge  crew,  rather than try taking out  the  Hirata 
   again."
   
   The  Navy is trying to hold patrols down to eighteen  months.   A 
   spokesman  said  the  Navy has found that to be  an  idea  patrol 
   length:   long  enough to make efficient use of a ship but not so 
   long that morale becomes a serious problem.
   
   The Navy has not always met this goal.  The battleship Silva left 
   Novaya Amerika South Pole Base in April of 1792 and returned last 
   March,  nearly  ten years later after taking part  in  operations 
   along  the  Frontier,  and in exercises in the DMZ and  near  the 
   border with the Auuran Independent Territories.   It made no port 
   visits  during its 863,000 light-year voyage;  it was  resupplied 
   with  fuel,  ammunition,  and other needed materials by  Military 
   Space Transport Command cargo carriers in deep space.
   
   "When  the Navy went through all the ballyhoo on cutting down  on 
   patrol  durations,  it  didn't count on the Hainite  Civil  War," 
   Linehoffer said.
   
   Maybe it should have.  According to a study by Academician Ilyena 
   Kapliski  of  the Novaya Rossiyan Institute for Advanced  Studies 
   and  Academician Josif Chang of the 2 City Akademy Nauk,  such  a 
   civil  war has been inevitable since the decision in 1778 by  the 
   Hainite Board of Strategy to increase security and defense expen-
   ditures.   This  increase came at the expense of what few  social 
   welfare  programs the Hainite central government  had  maintained 
   over the centuries.
   
   To meet demands being placed upon the NA Navy by the Commonality, 
   Bakurin  is overseeing the growth of the NA fleet from the  2,348 
   vessels in service at the time of Commonality Directive 1209 to a 
   target of 4,000 ships.
   
   Navy Grows
   
   The  NA Navy's personnel has been growing dramatically in  recent 
   years,  from  8,328,000  in 1780 to 12,480,000 in 1800 to an  ex-
   pected 13,109,000 next year.
   
   Beyond  trying to limit patrol lengths,  the NA Navy  has  estab-
   lished  its   family  assistance program in  recognition  of  the 
   hardships  faced  by Navy families.   CBBSs updated daily provide 
   information  to  those at home  about ships' progress  and  about 
   assistance available to Navy families.
   
   The NA Navy has come a long way.   Only fifty years ago, said Lt. 
   Cmdr.  Shyakin,  an  administrative officer at South  Pole  Base, 
   family  assistance meant little more than a post-patrol  briefing 
   for wives of deceased personnel in which an officer stated, "your 
   husbands  aren't  coming  home -- their personal effects  may  be 
   picked  up at the final clearance desk on level three  -- aircars 
   will be provided to take you back to your home city after you are 
   done there."
   
   "In the last few years," said Lt.  Cmdr Shyakin,  "it's as though 
   the Navy just discovered we're not celibate.   When I enlisted in 
   1743,  there  was a saying that if the Navy wanted you to have  a 
   family, they'd have issued you one."

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


   And something somewhat less "recent" (this item was "datelined"
   roughly mid-1800 AE (the campaign date corresponding to late in
   November 1985):
   
   FIGHTERS MEET ALONG THE DMZ (1 of 3)
   
   Space Battle on 'Routine' Reconnaissance Mission
   
   by Vistova Lewer, at Starsend Station
   
   Auuran crews,  in Hegemonic-designed deep space FTL patrol  craft 
   on a "routine reconnaissance mission" into the demilitarized zone 
   between  the Hegemony and the Second Empire,  fired upon and  de-
   stroyed two Empire-built Mkaran 'Tsarina' class assault scouts on 
   8 July, the Auuran Combined Wings military command announced.  It 
   is  the  first such incident since the DMZ was  established,  six 
   months after first contact with the Empire.
   
   This  clash  between  the Auuran Independent  Territory  and  the 
   Mkaran  League coincided with the opening of talks on New  Sparta 
   between their respective backers -- the L'Doran Hegemony and  the 
   Second Empire of Man.
   
   Assessment Deferred
   
   Firstspeaker Ikyera of Whitewings Aerie congratulated her Aerie's 
   starfighters but deferred judgment on the long-term  significance 
   of  the clash.   "One should not speak of trends on the basis  of 
   one incident," she told an Ata'an interviewer.
   
   According to the official statement released here on 17 July, the 
   Mkaran scouts attempted to intercept the Auuran patrol.  Military 
   sources  here added that the Auuri fired  anti-shipping  missiles 
   when the Mkaran ships closed on them inside an unspecified safety 
   range.
   
 
   FIGHTERS MEET ALONG THE DMZ (2 of 3)
   
   The  two Tsarinas were destroyed several parsecs inside  Imperial 
   territory  according  to the official  account.   Combined  Wings 
   Force  Commander  Ikkekkik  of Starwinds Aerie  confirmed  in  an 
   interview  that  his people's warcraft pursued the Mkaran  scouts 
   into Imperial space, then destroyed them.
   
   A Mkaran military communique released on the 19th said the Auuran 
   craft  were  driven out of Mkaran space "without achieving  their 
   aims".  It made no mention of any ships being destroyed.
   
   Hegemonic  military  sources,  quoting reports from  the  Fleet's 
   Frontier Observation Command,  confirmed the basic Auuran version 
   of the clash.
   
   The  Auuri have destroyed three hundred Mkaran spacecraft in five 
   pitched  battles in deep space during the last year,  wiping  out 
   nearly a fourth of the Mkaran League's war fleet.  The Auuri have 
   lost  no ships in space battles with Mkaran war  craft,  although 
   one Auuri ship was destroyed by the planetary defenses of one  of 
   the Mkaran worlds.
   
   The last Mkaran-Auuri space battle occured in March of 1799.  The 
   Auuri also destroyed two Mkaran Tsarinas on that occasion.
   
   The  Auuri have maintained regular reconnaissance patrols in  the 
   Demilitarized  Zone  despite the withdrawal of all Hegemonic  and 
   Imperial war craft from the region.  The flights are intended "to 
   insure  that no new threat develops" in the  area,  according  to 
   Auuran  Aerieleaders.   Normal patrols,  consisting of up to four 
   spacecraft,  fly  "several times a month," the  military  sources 
   said.
   
   A  senior  Auuran  defense source said the Mkarans  had  recently 
   relocated  some  of their bases nearer the  normal  Auuri  flight 
   paths, close to the DMZ.
   
 
   FIGHTERS MEET ALONG THE DMZ (3 of 3)
   
   Concerned about the possible clashes, Auuri pilots were told that 
   if  Mkaran  ships  give  apparent  challenge,   they  should,  if 
   possible,  break  off their reconnaissance and head back to their 
   bases, this source said.  And, he said, an Auuri patrol group did 
   just that on 3 July.
   
   On 8 July, however, the defense source said, the Mkarans appeared 
   to be moving into firing range, giving the Auuri pilots no choice 
   but to fire first.
   
   According to Auuri military sources,  the Mkaran spacecraft never 
   fired on their wing.
   
   "The minute you see a ship trying to intercept ...  then you take 
   the necessary action," one of these sources said, "You don't take 
   chances.  You can't ... It's less than a minute" to react.
   
   The  Mkaran Tsarinas are equipped with twelve missile  tubes  and 
   eighteen  Yastreb  C+ attack missiles with a speed of 360  light-
   years  per hour,  and an effective range of six to  seven  light-
   years, according to Auuri military sources.  "If you let them get 
   into  the range,  then it becomes an academic question later  who 
   opened fire."
   
   The  sources  refused to reveal whether the  spacecraft  involved 
   were  Hunters or Hellfires,  both of which are Hegemonic designs.  
   The Mkaran communique spoke of two Auuri Hunters.
   
   While  Mkaran  ships sometimes monitor the  Auuri  reconnaissance 
   missions,  they  usually  keep their  distance.   Auuri  military 
   sources said it was unclear why they did not do so this time.
   
   "I don't know if it was a locally initiated incident,  or a pilot 
   decision,  a  decision on Vikakr [the capital world of the Mkaran 
   League],  or a decision on New Sparta [the Imperial capital]" one 
   of the sources said.
   
   The  Vikakr warleaders have been replacing their losses with  the 
   Empire's  most advanced fighters,  the  Tsarina,  Dragonfly,  and 
   Vindicator,  according  to Auuran military sources.   The  Mkaran 
   space force now has more than 1100 warships.
   
   The Tsarina has four A4R2 TC batteries, D12 shielding, and twelve 
   missile  tubes.   It  carries  18 C+ and 60 normal  space  attack 
   missiles,  has an FTL cruise speed of 50 light-years per hour and 
   a normal space acceleration of 1500 gees (neutralized  internally 
   to 4.5 gees).
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Well, as it happens, the Commonality of Man was pulling what might be called a
"fast one".  This little news article was really a crafty piece of
"disinformatzia".  It seems that the Commonality was working on building ships
like mad, and staffing them with crews from the old War Worlds (high-gee
worlds colonized by the First Empire -- people who took the LONG view at the
time).
 
Then, when the time was ripe, and the Altani were in their worst political
situation in centuries, the Humans trotted out a quarter of a million capital
ships and a good four million "new" warships that no one knew anything about. 
Something about highly automated manufacturing facilities going full bore for
twenty-thirty years...
 
The Altani were suitably "impressed".  The Humans got a representative on the
Central Committee, and control of the Colonization Control Board for the
Commonality region (guaranteeing future control of Commonality space...and
beyond).
 
A terrorist "raid" by isolationist members of the Second Empire of Man gave
the Commonality government just what they wanted -- a suitable target to
demonstrate their new forces -- and it was "all elements of the Fleet to move
against the Empire."
 
The fall of the Second Empire to Commonality forces lead to problems within
the Commonality, and the Silithii Rebellion (lately crushed in the local
campaign) cost them their Second Empire territories and have left the
Commonality in a bit of a mess.  Need I say that the Rebellion was financed
(in a very large part) from the treasury of the Imperial Resistance movement,
and backed by numerous Imperial starships that somehow never got turned over
to the "victorious" Commonality forces?
 
But those are stories for another time.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   
   Your ship is  a 15000 metric ton armored scout.  The normal crew
   complement of this class ship is 10-20. Your normal cruise speed
   in jump space is 30 ly/hr, and you can handle up to 1200 gees in
   normal space (99% neutralization,  so you'll feel 12 gees if you
   start zipping around this fast).  Normally, acceleration in nor-
   mal space is  kept down to 1 gee.  Approaching your base, or any
   of the other central worlds, at more  than 1 gee will get you in
   a LOT  of trouble...mostly from all the intentionally unpleasant
   junk used to protect the  central worlds from relativistic spit-
   balls.
   
   You normally want to be 2 AU out from a star before you start to
   power up the jump drive.   It takes anywhere from 60-360 seconds
   for you to power up the jump field and "disappear".  You need to
   be AT LEAST ten planetary  diameters out before you DARE go into
   jump, and AT LEAST 1 AU out from the star (well, a G2 star, any-
   way).  Once the drive sequence is  started, you can  either dump
   (and make  a lot  of radio and other noise, as  well as a pretty
   light show) or you can try and go into jump.  If you're too deep
   in a  gravity well when  you try to  go into jump, you will come
   right out again...scattered over a  sphere that is roughly 20 AU
   in diameter.  This hurts a lot.  It is not a suggested practice.
   
   On entry to a new system, the first order of business in to do a
   sky map.  This operation takes about 50 hours.   Breakout should
   be somewhere in the neighborhood of 5AU out from the primary (it
   could be less -- or more). During this time, the ship is sitting
   with all systems except life support, minimal power, and passive
   sensors shut DOWN.  You're trying to be VERY quiet.
   
   Once the sky map is done, you'll know where the planets are. And
   you'll have identified and located any radio or neutrino sources
   in the system.  Radio means a fairly advanced society. Neutrinos
   mean a fusion/total-conversion power society (VERY advanced, and
   likely your equal or superior).
   
   Any time you move on your contragravity drive (or when you start
   up or shut down your stardrive) you're going to generate gravity
   waves -- which someone else with the right sort of detectors can
   spot.  You've got the  right sort of detectors  (good ones).  If
   someone can spot  you this way,  they're likely fairly advanced.
   On a planet (in an atmosphere) your ceegees make noise...LOTS of
   noise (imagine being 100' directly below a 747 on takeoff).  You
   will also light up the local sky with a very nice light show  --
   very pretty, and impossible to disguise. If a local doesn't know
   what it is, it's "just a bunch of funny lights in the sky".   If
   he does know about contragravity, it tells him a whole lot more.
   
   
   You are barred from  landing on any  world with a pre-starflight
   society, save on direct orders from  the CNO.  Violation of this
   general order is  one of the "crash landings" for which you WILL
   be courtmartialed.  The flight recorders record EVERY instrument
   reading, and every second of feed from the security cameras. The
   security cameras cover every square centimeter of the ship's in-
   terior.  There  are also sound  recorders, and  all their output
   goes into the little black boxes.   You cannot alter the records
   that those black  boxes make; trying will  get you nowhere.  The
   people who designed them  are VERY good, and  the Arms have been
   working on making them tougher  to bust for nigh onto five thou-
   sand Terrestrial years. Anything you say on any of the comm cir-
   cuits on any of the suits ALSO gets fed into the recorders.  The
   telemetry on the suits gets fed into the recorders, and they are
   also "wired for sound"  so anything you  say while IN one of the
   suits will get recorded somewhere where you can't erase it.
   
   The Arms haven't figured out a way to record telepathic communi-
   cations, though, so there's still ONE secure line available. And
   you can  always go  somewhere and  take off your suit to talk in
   private.  But remember...the fact of the suit being removed will
   be recorded,  and the matter will likely come up during debrief-
   ing after you get back to base.
   
   There's another wonderful rule to remember: if you break biolog-
   ical containment, for any reason, all affected  parties will end
   up in orbital quarantine for 1 terrestrial year on return. There
   a biological containment area on  board ship; it is not possible
   to reach biological  containment without going outside the ship.
   It is possible to eject the biological containment section -- it
   can be "launched" from the bridge. The bio section gets launched
   using a fair amount of  explosives, and leaves a large "hole" in
   the ship, so don't try any high speed manuevers in an atmosphere
   after you do this. Decontamination works fine, so long as you're
   wearing a suit or you're decontaminating a shuttlecraft, etc. If
   you've been exposed directly to a biohazard, it's off to the bio
   containment section for you for the remainder of the voyage.
   
   No "alien" scenarios, here, thank you.   You LEAVE  CONTAMINATED
   CREW BEHIND FIRST.  Failure  to comply with this little rule can
   get the Captain shot.  And the XO.  And anyone else with command
   authority.  A VERY BIG NO-NO. The People Who Matter back at base
   will become very  unpleasant with violators of bio-control; pro-
   motion chances will be, shall we say, very much reduced?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


             Recent news in the StormGate Aerie local campaign
                             (part 1 of 2)

     8 Apr 1818:  HSS Landry out of  Valhalla siezed by COMMNS Weneger for
                  smuggling contraband [Heaven Tea] in Novaya system.

     9 Apr 1818:  Instel  Liner Rim Princess collides with  system defense
                  cluster in Novaya system.

    13 Apr 1818:  COMNSS Weneger rescues survivors, Rim Princess accident.

    17 Apr 1818:  COMNSS Weneger arrives Novaya Amerika to drop off survi-
                  vors of Rim Princess  accident, and turn  over prisoners
                  from HSS Landry.

     4 May 1818:  Pitched  battle between Imperial troops  and Steel Angel
                  Human supremicist group in Kensho (New Sparta).  Casual-
                  ties in excess of 3000.  Cruiser Vindictive brought into
                  atmosphere to provide close support for Imperial troops.

    10 May 1818:  Trials of captured Steel Angel Deacons begin in Kensho.

     5 Jun 1818:  Trials of 4 May Insurrectionists completed.  Offered the
                  choice of "Transportation for life or death by hanging",
                  the majority of the  defendents choose death by hanging.
                  Julius Carver and  Aloysius Hardasty, Steel Angel Execu-
                  tive Council members, choose transportation for life.

     6 Jun 1818:  Sentences of convicted Insurrectionists carried out. The
                  prison ship Brethaven, carrying Carver, Hardasty and the
                  other transportees leaves for Endeavor colony.

    10 Jun 1818:  Instel experimental craft IXMJS 202 stolen from Cordovan
                  research installation [Novaya system belt]

    11 Jun 1818:  Attack on Corvette transport Hercules 1500ly from Novaya
                  system by four surviving Silithii raiders.

    20 Jun 1818:  ISS Frieslander leaves New Sparta system.

     7 Jul 1818:  Task Force Sierra Five  (BB Vespasian, CA Xerxes, CA Von
                  Clausewitz, CVA Dreamland, CVA Nightmare, CVA Sponotake,
                  DD Hunter, DD Starfox, DD Wolf, DD Nemesis, WAC Catseye,
                  and WAC Longview) at breakout, edge of Novaya system.

 
    10 Jul 1818:  Task Force Sierra Five reformed, inbound Novaya system.

    17 Jul 1818:  Hercules arrives Novaya system. Reports having destroyed
                  three raiders, possibly damaged one other.  6 Casualties
                  reported (crew of 25).

    18 Jul 1818:  ISS Frieslander arrives Novaya  system with news of pro-
                  blem in Second Empire.

    22 Jul 1818:  COMNSS Weneger damaged by impact with "space debris".

    24 Jul 1818:  Leaves  and liberties cancelled for  all SP personnel on
                  Novaya Amerika.

    25 Jul 1818:  COMNSS Weneger "space debris" identified  as pastrami on
                  rye, with mustard [travelling at approximately 0.02c]. A
                  strong protest is sent on open channel by the CO to Task
                  Force Sierra Five...                  

    26 Jul 1818:  Task Force Sierra in orbit, Novaya Amerika.  Liberty be-
                  gins at 2000 hours local.   Shuttles begin landing, 2100
                  hours. 14000 Navy pukes hit port after 28 months in deep
                  space.  480 of these Navy pukes are fighter pilots.

 

        REBELLION ON HAN
        MARTIAL REVOLT - FATE OF GOVERNMENT IN DOUBT

        by Irena Lewer, for ComNet
        10 September 1807, T'Chin Yan, Han

        Twelve  thousand mutinous Tuu and Au pack ground troops made  co-
        ordinated attacks against five key military installations and the 
        Hall of Legislators yesterday, leaving hundreds of casualties and 
        the fate of the democratic government of Han in doubt.

        First Minister Kin-Po Ira Shan was unhurt in the sunset attack on 
        the  Hall that was repulsed by troops still loyal to the  govern-
        ment.  CIC Ground Forces, San Ira Po, continued to maintain  that 
        she  and the First Minister were in control of the situation.  No 
        comment was available from either Tuu or Au pack representatives.

        Rebel forces today secured large portions of at least three mili-
        tary installations and both of the C+ transceivers at the  poles. 
        Heavy weapons fire continued throughout the night in T'Chin Yan.

        Exiled Members Offer to Return

        Members of the old Board of Strategy currently on Illeewoe denied 
        involvement  in  the  rebellion, but stated that  they  would  be 
        "willing to return to Han to advise the rebels or to resume their 
        legitimate rule."

        "Honorable Warriors and True Soldiers"

        By  this morning, rebel soldiers lead by Komdar Tuu Ira Chan  had 
        seized key control points of the T'Chin Yan landing field,  Han's 
        major  spaceport facility. Fighting continued around the  Academy 
        Spire.  Surrounded by rebel soldiers in powered armor, a  spokes-
        vixen  for the mutinous troops delivered a prepared statement  in 
        which  she pledged that her troops would "fight to the  death  to 
        restore the traditional values of Han."

        "We are not loyalists, destructuralists, or a revisionist group," 
        said  the  unidentified  spokesvixen. "We would  like  to  assure 
        everyone  that  we are honorable warriors and  true  soldiers  of 
        Han." In open defiance of the Legislature and the First Minister, 
        the rebels stated, "We have taken it upon ourselves, as  servants 
        of  the True Way, to continue the struggle for true  justice  and 
        duty  which our so-called leaders of the Legislature have  failed 
        to do."

        "The  political leadership of Han has clearly failed in its  duty 
        to the family associations and to History."

        The rebels then claimed that they were in control of Chara  base, 
        Han's  space defense command center, as well as Sirado base,  the 
        Paratemporal  Arm's central command center, adding "We expect  to 
        have the capital and much of South Continent under control within 
        three  days."  Calling on all soldiers to join them,  the  rebels     
added,  "We also ask the whole of the Altani race to join  us  in 
        the quest for a new and proper direction. The earlier we  resolve 
        this  conflict,  the better it will be for Han and  for  all  the 
        Central Worlds."

        Sagraloi,  the government controlled news agency, quoted CIC  San 
        Ira Po as telling her officers and troops "not to believe  propa-
        ganda  being  broadcast by traitorous mutineers who  have  seized 
        transmission stations around the planet."

        CIC  San  Ira Po claimed that the rebels had only  four  thousand 
        renegade troops and that "their coup attempt has already failed." 
        Sagraloi added reports that the Minister of Defense and all other 
        cabinet  level ministers have remained loyal to the  present  re-
        gime.

        Kin-Po  Ira San issued no statements after her initial  announce-
        ment,  in which the First Minister stated, "I would like to  tell 
        our  people that, first of all, I am unhurt and that CIC San  Ira 
        Po is dealing with this situation."

        The  First Minister delivered her planet wide  broadcast  several 
        hours after she was awakened in her quarters underneath the  Hall 
        of Legislators with news of the coup attempt.

        She concluded by saying, "In a few hours we can resolve this."

        Soon  after  CIC San Ira Po confirmed that the coup  attempt  had 
        failed, rebel units defeated loyalist forces at T'Chin Yan  field 
        and shut down operations at the space port. It was clear that CIC 
        San  Ira  Po and her troops were not in complete control  of  the 
        capital.

        The Legislature has moved to alternate facilities to the north of 
        T'Chin Yan, and security measures there have been stepped up.


        FORMER TUU REPRESENTATIVES DENY INVOLVEMENT
        STILL WILLING TO RETURN

        by Nicholas Shugran, for ComNet

        12 September 1807, Complex One, Illeewoe

        The exiled former Tuu pack representatives to the Board of  Stra-
        tegy denied today that they were in any way involved in the muti-
        nous attacks on Han, saying that the violence was a direct result 
        of the desperation of the general populace.

        "We  are not involved and there is no need for us to be  involved 
        in the Hainite situation. The people are desperate, hungry,  sick 
        and frustrated. They have realized that there is widespread  cor-
        ruption  and  disregard for the traditional values of  honor  and 
        duty,  and  they are expressing their  righteous  indignation  by 
        rebelling against the current corrupt regime."

        Later,  in a v-phone interview broadcast on ComNet's  "Frontline" 
        program,  the former representatives said that the rebellion  was 
        growing  into a systemwide uprising involving all levels  of  so-
        ciety  from  warriors and scientists down to merchants  and  even 
        Codii.

        Asked  whether  they hoped to play a role if  the  rebels  gained 
        control, the former representatives said: "we hope that they will 
        remember  us,  that they will allow us to advise them,  and  that 
        they might consider returning us to our rightful places as rulers 
        on Han."

        They  stated that, under the agreements between the Hainite  gov-
        ernment  and the Central Committee concerning their  exile,  they 
        cannot leave Illeewoe without permission.

From:    Nicolai Shapero                          
To:      All                                      Msg #263, 20-Nov-89 20:44pm
Subject: More old campaign news (part 1 of 2)

        TROOPS' FATAL MIX-UP SHOWS DEEP DISTRUST
        (Part 1 of 2)

        by Irena Lewer, for ComNet

        15 September 1807, T'Chin Yan, Han

        At  the start of a bloody uprising here on Han, Ground  Arm  Com-
        Richtor  Larn Ira Kal received a battle wound that she said  will 
        never be a source of pride.

        A  combat  veteran,  CR  Larn Ira Kal  and  thousands  of  fellow 
        soldiers had decided to side with First Minister Kin-Po Ira  Shan 
        against a politically powerful band of over twelve thousand rene-
        gade  troops mutinying against her rule. And CR Larn Ira Kal  was 
        aboard one of many armored vehicles that moved up on the 14th  to 
        reinforce  loyalist soldiers attempting to retake the rebel  held 
        T'Chin Yan spaceport.

        Fire on Reinforcements

        Suddenly,  several  loyalists turned and fired  on  the  arriving 
        reinforcements. A two-hour battle left seven civilian  bystanders 
        and  four  hundred  twelve soldiers dead and  more  than  fifteen 
        hundred  wounded, among them CR Larn Ira Kal, who had taken  part 
        in the 1787 rebellion that placed First Minister Kin-Po Ira  Shan 
        and her associates in power.

        What  happened was a mistake, a military spokesvixen, Komdar  San 
        Ira  Pla announced three hours after the battle's end. "It was  a 
        `misencounter'," she said, "due to poor communication." But to CR 
        Larn  Ira Kal, the incident is a source of shame. She  said  that 
        she  will wear it as a scar for the rest of her life. The  wound, 
        from  a grazing blaster bolt, seared flesh and burned fur on  her 
        jaw.

        Sign of Military Mistrust

        For several neutral military observers, who joined journalists to 
        witness twenty hours of fighting between loyalists and rebels  it 
        was an illustration of the deep divisions, distrust and demorali-
        zation now plaguing the Hainite armed forces.

        "It  doesn't  matter who wins this battle,"  one  Human  military 
        analyst said as artillery and missiles arced across the city sky. 
        "No matter who wins, the people lose."

        Pentar Akal Ira Po, commander of Orbit One, who declared for  the 
        rebels  on  the 13th, described the situation  in  even  stronger 
        terms in a v-phone interview with this reporter.

        "This  is not an end to it  even if the rebellion is crushed  to-
        morrow.  It is not over until we have restored The Way. Each  and 
        every incident that fails will only serve as the seedbed for  the 
        next.  Each  incident will strike deeper and excise more  of  the     
rot,  until the patient at last is cured. We can be Silenced,  it 
        is true, but one has not converted an Altani by Silencing her."

        CIC  Space Command, Kin-Po Ira Liu, gave orders relieving  Pentar 
        Akal  Ira Po of her command after hearing of her support for  the 
        mutiny,  and later announced that Akal Ira Po had  been  arrested 
        and would be tried shortly.

        Pentar  Akal Ira Po, a rebel who took part in the Civil War  that 
        drove Akal Ir Chen and the Board of Strategy into exile, stressed 
        that  none  of the mutineers favored Akal Ir Chen or any  of  his 
        people. In fact, she said, they believed they were "finishing the 
        work we began twelve H-years ago."

        "The current administration is little different from that of Akal 
        Ir Chen's," the Pentar said, "A revolution cannot be said to have 
        been  successful  unless  there is a significant  change  in  the 
        government -- otherwise all we have done is to change one set  of 
        tyrants for another. And the tyranny of the unenlightened mob  is 
        the worst form of tyranny imaginable."

        CIC  San Ira Po and her senior officers insisted after the  first 
        day  of the rebellion that the armed forces were  solidly  united 
        behind the government of the First Minister. These same  officers 
        have made the same claim each day since.

        In  reality,  divisions  within the armed  forces  have  deepened 
        radically,  Human  military analysts said. A reflection  of  this 
        division can be seen in the First Minister's initial  planet-wide 
        statement  in  which she condemned the rebels as  "traitors"  and 
        "monsters" to whom she has "nothing to say."

        Moreover,  CIC San Ira Po has made no effort to try to  negotiate 
        with  her former supporters, moving instead, on the  First  Mini-
        ster's  orders, to attack rebel positions with  heavy  artillery, 
        war gases, mobile infantry, and armored atmospheric craft.

        TROOPS' FATAL MIX-UP SHOWS DEEP DISTRUST
        (Part 2 of 2)

        by Irena Lewer, for ComNet

        15 September 1807, T'Chin Yan, Han

        CIC  San Ira Po has noted that were defeated in the field,  rebel 
        leaders have just "disappeared" along with the majority of  their 
        troops  and she said "The seeds of the government's  future  pro-
        blems have been sown."

        Several  other  significant signs of the split  and  the  ensuing 
        ineffectiveness  of  the military were evident during  the  early 
        stages of the rebellion. From the first, there have been virtual-
        ly none of the Star Arm or elite Stroga ground units among  those 
        loyal  to the government. The government units have consisted  of 
        security forces from the Support Arm, ground troops from the Home 
        Defense Command, and naval personnel from the Air Arm.

        "My  guess is that until the regular army decides one way or  the 
        other," a Bjoran military analyst said, "the rebellion will  con-
        tinue.  If  the army goes with the government,  the  rebels  will 
        fail.  But even if it fails this time, what will happen the  next 
        time? Who knows?"

        It  wasn't until CR Larn Ira Kal and her armored column moved  in 
        on  the  spaceport  that the loyalist assault  had  any  apparent 
        chance of success.

        Troops Hid Behind Ground Cars

        Before  the armored units arrived, most of the loyalist  security 
        troops hid behind ground cars or in civilian offices at the first 
        sign of opposition. Hundreds of troops hid in emergency  hospital 
        facilities  just  outside the landing area for  hours  after  the 
        rebels took the spaceport.

        Several  times,  Support Arm troops  accidentally  dropped  their 
        weapons,  which  then discharged, injuring  or  killing  civilian 
        bystanders.

        At  one point, during an Air Arm strike against  rebel  positions 
        outside  the  city, a frightened Support Arm non-com  asked  this 
        reporter  whether the aircraft was bombing his base or the  rebel 
        base.

        "There's  no question that these are sad excuses  for  soldiers," 
        said Colonel Joseph R. Towers, a Human military/political analyst 
        on the scene. "You can just imagine how little they'd be able  to 
        do fighting Imperials, or any Humans for that matter. There is  a 
        deep  schism between the soldier who is interested in  his  duty, 
        and  the senior officer who is interested only in personal  gain. 
        The  junior officers and enlisted personnel -- the  underdogs  -- 
        cannot take advantage of political patronage, as the senior offi-
        cers  are  doing.  They do the dirty work and  plow  through  the 
        fields  while  the Komdars are below ground  in  air  conditioned 
        offices sitting on shimmeree pillows and talking to politicians."

        "The problem," he continued, "has deepened to the point where the 
        Altani military forces in L'Dorai system have lost their identity 
        as an organization."

        The key question, according to key military analysts, is what the 
        elite units will do.

        One Star Arm ComRichtor, who asked not to be identified, appeared 
        to have already made her decision.

        "When our own troops start shooting at us, while all we're trying 
        to  do is come to the rescue," she said, "I'm not so sure that  I 
        want to be on the Government side.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HAINITE GOVERNMENT FALLS IN LIGHTNING COUP
by Irena Lewer, for InterNet

Han:  14 September 1819 AE

Rebel  forces  today continued to battle  pockets  of  government 
holdouts  in  the planetary capital, but Komdar Kin-Po  Ira  Tal, 
leader of rebel forces in T'Chin Yan, declared that the religious 
government of Han has been been crushed.

T'Chin  Yan field, closed for four days because of  the  fighting 
here, reopened today, a spaceport spokesman said.

Komdar K'P'Tal's assertion of victory yesterday came a day  after 
rebel  forces siezed the Academy Spire in a fierce day-long  bat-
tle.

At  the same time, Central Committee Representative  John  Towers 
(Commonality)  said that he is prepared to order military  inter-
vention if necessary to protect Human lives and commercial inter-
ests.

Rebel  snipers began the fourth day by firing rockets  and  small 
field  pieces at Government House and the Temple of the  Huntress 
outside  T'Chin Yan from lower levels of the  Spire.   Government 
troops returned fire with tribarrels and heavy machine guns.

An  estimated four thousand government troops are  still  holding 
out in Embassy Row.  An Imperial diplomat said earlier today that 
the building that houses his government's embassy was attacked by 
the government troops on the first day of the rebellion, and that 
government  snipers  were now inside and shooting back  at  rebel 
forces on the street below.  Similar incidents have been reported 
all along Embassy Row.

At  least seven hundred soldiers have been killed  and  thousands 
more wounded. In addition, there have been at least thirty  thou-
sand  civilian casualties, making this the bloodiest uprising  on 
Han since the Hainite Civil War.

"The cost has certainly been high," conceded rebel leader  Komdar 
K'P'Tal.

But  the Rebels are flushed with a sense of victory.   By  midday 
today, more than five thousand government troops had surrendered, 
including  Kornam  dal Au Ira Shan, CINC Ground forces  and  high 
priestess of the Cult of the Huntress.

"The  Government  and it's religion have  been  crushed,"  Komdar 
K'P'Tal declared at a news conference this afternoon.  She  added 
that only "mopping up operations" remain.

Security  personnel captured an L'Dreyan agent before  she  could 
explode  a grenade at the outdoor stage were Komdar  K'P'Tal  was 
speaking,  a  rebel spokesperson said today.  MilKomdar  Tau  Ira 
Tien said that the agent was shot as she was removing the grenade 
from her pocket.  No sophonts were reported injured in the  inci-
dent, as the agent was taken away for "questioning".

Central  Committee member John Towers formally notified the  Cen-
tral  Committee today in a speech that Commonality  forces  stood 
ready  to defend Human interests on Han.  "At present, we do  not 
see an immediate need to intervene on Han," Towers said. "But  we 
are  prepared to take additional actions to protect the lives  of 
Terro-Humans,  should they be threatened.  We are, further,  pre-
pared to take action in order to protect commercial interests  of 
the Commonality on Han, should this prove necessary."

_____________________________________________________________________________



                           WE'RE ALL BOZOS ON THIS BUS
                                        
                                       by
        
                                   Kay Shapero
        
             Well,  it happened like this...                             
                                                                         
             We were all sitting around the briefing room conversing  and 
        generally  wondering  what the fates and the  high  command  were 
        going to send us this time for a captain, seeing as how our  last 
        one had reportedly vanished, screaming, into the night, when  the 
        door opened to admit a tall individual. A very tall individual. A 
        fourteen  foot  tall  individual.  A fourteen  foot  tall  Bjoran 
        individual.   With a vaguely sour look on his face.  Lirarl,  the 
        biochemist,  leaned  over  and whispered to  me.  "D'you  suppose 
        that's him?"           
                                                               
             I whispered back. "If he is, I sure hope you brought  enough 
        dye..."                                 
                                                               
 
             Sure enough, he introduced himself as Gregor Gohkra, our new 
        commander  and proceeded to explain the details of our next  mis-
        sion, namely taking a look at the planets, if any, of a couple of 
        stars and checking them for anything of interest. I must say that 
 ...
