URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/cOzf2AtTs1w
TITLE: Other Suns : 21 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Friday, 12 October 1990 15:15:04 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.20 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero.  This gaming material is
distributed on a shareware basis.  If you do not use the material you
owe the author nothing.  If you do use it please pay him what you
think it is worth at a fair price becasue it took a damn lot of work
to develop and playtest.  The USmail address is:

Niall Shapero
2536 Short Ave
Los Angeles CA 90066
USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:
(213)822-6729

Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will
pass them on to Niall.

----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
Armor does not protect against tumbling damage. If a jumping roll
is  made, reduce the damage done by 3D6 and allow the  player  to
select  the location(s) landed on. If a roll of LUC x 1 on  1D100
is  made, halve the damage -- and the luck roll may  be  repeated
until a roll is failed (the damage being halved for each success-
ful roll).

Damage from tumbles is resolved as per falling damage: i.e. it is
done  to the location struck until that location is down to  zero
END points, then hit point damage is done to that location  until
it  has  been reduced to zero hit points, and this  procedure  is
repeated  with the next logical hit location until all  locations
have  been  reduced to zero hit points and zero END  points.  The
initial  location struck then takes hit point damage until it  is
at -8 hit points and remaining damage points are allocated to the
next logical hit location, (moving on to a new location each time
the current location has been reduced to -8 hit points).

The base damage done by tumbling is based upon the speed at which
the adventurer is moving when he falls as follows: (1) at  speeds
up to 40 kph, damage is 1D6, (2) for 41 to 55 kph, damage is 2D6,
(3)  for 56-70 kph damage is 3D6, (4) for speeds up to  100  kph,
add 1D6 damage for each additional 10 kph above 70 kph (or  frac-
tion  thereof), (4) for speeds above 100 kph, add 1D6 for each  5
kph or fraction thereof beyond 100 kph.

If,  in  addition,  there is a simultaneous fall  from  a  height
involved, use the Falling rules (section 14.2.2 in Other Suns) to
determine additional falling damage -- and add this to the  total
tumbling  damage  before  the jumping and luck  rolls  to  reduce
damage are attempted.

Endurance:  The charts provide information on Endurance costs  of
various  types of movement. This is covered in more detail  in  a
later section of this booklet.

Using  the  Movement Charts: When calculating travel  speeds  and
other  information, two tables must be consulted. Table #1,  Ter-
rain,  gives  movement rates multipliers,  Endurance  costs,  and
skill  roll  modifiers for movement over various  terrain  types.
These  values have been selected under the assumption of no  snow
cover  on the ground. Table #2, Snow Cover, gives  movement  rate
multipliers, Endurance costs, and skill roll modifiers for  move-
ment over various types of snow cover.

Movement rate multipliers are cumulative: the Basic Movement rate
for the character is multiplied by each applicable modifier.  The
result  is then rounded to the nearest tenth of a  kilometer  per
hour.  Thus, a human moving over rugged terrain in wet deep  snow
cover  on foot moves at 0.75 (Rugged Terrain modifier) times  0.5
(Wet  Deep Snow modifier) times 3.75 kilometers per  hour  (Basic
Movement  Rate) for an overall travel rate of 1.40625 kph,  which
rounds to 1.4 kph.

The  largest Endurance expenditure given for the applicable  ter-
rain and snow cover is used. The human character in the preceding
example  uses the Very Heavy activity Endurance expenditure  rate
(1D6 per hour).

The  terrain and snow cover tables also provides skill  modifiers
for  movement skills (snowshoeing, skiing, vehicular  operations,
etc.) under the specified conditions. These modifiers are cumula-
tive.

VEHICLES IN ARCTIC CONDITIONS

The  use  of  vehicles in an arctic setting can  be  hampered  by
considerations  of surface conditions or weather.  Some  vehicles
are better suited to the environment than others, and many  types
have  their own unique advantages and/or disadvantages, as  noted
below.

In the Hegemony, vehicles are powered by total conversion (TC) --
either  directly,  or through batteries charged  using  TC  power
generators. The batteries, unlike those of 1st Century Atomic Era
(AE)  Earth,  are  unaffected by cold. And moving  parts  on  the
vehicles are lubricated using non-freezing lubricants. In  short,
under  conditions  that would freeze  First  Century  Terrestrial
internal  combustion powered vehicles in their tracks, 18th  Cen-
tury AE Hegemonic vehicles will operate without problem or  hesi-
tation.


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 10 OF 28)

Wheeled  Vehicles: Wheeled vehicles are the least effective  form
of  wilderness  transportation, and in arctic conditions  can  be
particularly unreliable. The movement charts include entries  for
wheeled vehicle movement.

The  movement  multiplier for wheeled vehicles  in  the  Movement
Effects  Tables is applied to the maximum speed assigned  to  the
vehicle  in  the equipment descriptions. This regulates  the  top
speed  at  which the vehicle may move safely; the  top  speed  at
which  they driver may drive, however, can be less than  this  --
HIS  maximum safe speed is 1 kph per 1% vehicle skill  level  (as
limited  by his Arctic Travel skill). Vehicles may be  driven  at
above these two safe speeds; however for each kph above the  safe
vehicle  speed or above the driver's safe speed, deduct  1%  from
the skill level of the driver. Thus for each kph above the larger
of these two values, the driver's skill is reduced by 2%.

The  endurance value reflects the endurance expenditure  assessed
against  the  driver and all passengers, in accordance  with  the
rules on endurance.

The skill modifiers indicate additional adjustment to the  driver
skill level. For each 20 minute period (or fraction thereof), the
driver  of each vehicle must make is vehicular  operations  skill
roll  (as limited by Arctic travel, and as modified by  speed  of
travel, terrain and surface conditions).

If the skill roll is failed, roll for tumbling/falling damage for
the driver and all passengers (as per skiing and skating  earlier
in this booklet) where the vehicle speed is reduced 1 kph per  1%
skill of the driver, as modified by circumstances (if the result-
ant  effective  speed  is less than 1 kph, no  damage  is  done).
Jumping rolls may not be used to reduce this damage, though  luck
rolls  (as per tumbling/falling) may be attempted. If  the  skill
roll  is fumbled, roll for tumbling/falling damage as with  fail-
ure; the resultant damage minus the vehicle armor is taken by the
vehicle and double the rolled tumbling/falling damage is done  to
the driver and each passenger (vehicle armor is NOT deducted from
the damage to the driver and passengers).

Tracked  Vehicles: As the Movement Effects Tables  show,  tracked
vehicles are significantly more effective in both wilderness  and
arctic  terrain types than are wheeled vehicles. All  procedures,
however,  remain unchanged from those described above;  only  the
movement multipliers and condition modifiers are different.

Ground  Effect Vehicles: GEVs (or hovercraft) are vehicles  which
ride  on  a  cushion of air over the ground,  rather  than  using
wheels or tracks in contact with the ground. The effects of  snow
and  ice  are  thus minimal on hovercraft  performance.  But  the
nature of GEV movement does make it very susceptible to difficul-
ties  associated with terrain. A Ground Effect Vehicle is at  its
best over water, ice, or broad, open plains (such as most typical
tundra  regions),  but is at a severe disadvantage in  rugged  or
mountainous  terrain. Because the air cushion that  supports  the
vehicle  is only a few feet deep, the vehicle must skim low  over
the  surface. Sudden changes in ground level can wreck  a  hover-
craft  almost without warning. And, in addition, GEVs are  diffi-
cult to handle in high winds, showing noticeable instability when
wind velocities mount to the levels common in the arctic.

The procedure for handling GEV movement is basically the same  as
previously  presented  for the other vehicle  types.  There  are,
however,  no  modifications  applied (either to  speed  or  skill
level) from the Movement Effects Table for Snow Cover; the  skill
level of the driver is, however, reduced by 1% per kilometer  per
hour of wind.

Snowmobiles:  Snowmobiles are small vehicles especially  designed
for travel over snow and ice; typical models are included in  the
Equipment section of this booklet. Snowmobiles use the procedures
discussed  above for wheeled and tracked vehicles in  determining
movement and skill modifier effects, but standard snowmobiles may
be used only when snow cover is shallow, deep, or hard packed, or
on  ice. In the absence of sufficient snow, a  snowmobile  cannot
ordinarily be used. However, special adapter kits -- described in
the Equipment section -- permit the addition of wheels or  tracks
to  the standard snowmobile. If such special gear  is  installed,
the  snowmobile can be handled on ground where insufficient  snow
is present and the appropriate wheeled or tracked sections of the
Movement Effects Tables are used.

Sleds:  Animal-drawn sleds are a primitive but  fairly  efficient
form  of transport in arctic conditions. The basic movement  rate
of  the  sled depends upon the speed of the animals  drawing  it;
this,  in turn, is determined using the same process as the  foot
movement  rates  discussed  earlier. Thus  the  Length,  Movement
Class, and Locomotory mode of the animals must be determined  for
the animals in question in order to establish their basic  speed.
The  movement modifiers on the Movement Effects Tables  are  then
used to modify this basic movement rate.


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 11 OF 28)

Because the animals in question are drawing a burden, the  Encum-
brance  (ENC)  of the animals and the Endurance  of  the  animals
should  also  be  determined. The mass of the  load  being  drawn
should be halved (as it is being pulled, rather than carried) and
then divided equally among the animals used for purpose of deter-
mination  of load for each animal. An average END figure  may  be
set for the animal team, and then the Endurance expenditure rules
applied  to the team to track its ability to maintain a  long  or
hard pace.

Like  snowmobiles, sleds are designed to move over snow and  ice,
and  so  require  either ice terrain or shallow,  deep,  or  hard
packed  snow  to  move. Wheels can be mounted  if  desired;  sled
movement  over bare ground (or spotty cover) is at half the  sled
movement rate.

A  failed skill roll using a sled means that the driver has  tum-
bled  (minimum  1D6 tumbling damage, jumping and luck  rolls  ap-
plicable as earlier).
