URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/svNn-B5XBPw
TITLE: Other Suns : 19 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Friday, 12 October 1990 15:11:20 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.19 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero.  This gaming material is
distributed on a shareware basis.  If you do not use the material you
owe the author nothing.  If you do use it please pay him what you
think it is worth at a fair price becasue it took a damn lot of work
to develop and playtest.  The USmail address is:

Niall Shapero
2536 Short Ave
Los Angeles CA 90066
USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:
(213)822-6729

Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will
pass them on to Niall.

----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------


                     ICE WORLD I (PART 5 OF 28)

Hard Pack Snow: Hard pack is the term used in the rules to  refer
to "old" snow, which has accumulated on previous days. The weight
of  new  snow compacts the older snow,  producing  a  potentially
slick base. Each day, new snow from the previous day becomes hard
pack  if  the  temperature does not rise high  enough  to  permit
melting.  If hard pack snow is present under spotty  snow  cover,
movement is more difficult for both vehicles and walking  person-
nel. By the time snow becomes deep, however, underlying hard pack
is no longer relevant.

Limitations on Snow and Ice:

If  a world has no water vapor (values for "S" in  the  planetary
atmosphere equation between 0.56 and 0.32), then snow and ice are
obviously not going to be present. Cryogenic worlds, like  pluto,
may  well have hydrogen "ice" on the surface, but in these  rules
we are assuming basically terrestrial type oxygen-nitrogen atmos-
phere worlds

WEATHER

Several tables elsewhere in this booklet can be used to establish
weather  conditions.  They were prepared for use  on  terrestrial
type worlds; the Referee should feel free to modify these  tables
to cover unusual or extreme conditions on specific worlds in  his
campaign.

Snowfall is based on humidity, which is in turn derived from  the
general  cloudiness  of the area. Every day, the  Referee  should
roll  for cloudiness percentage (on 1D100). Reading  across  from
the result, the Referee finds a Cloudiness Factor and a  Humidity
Factor for the world (the Snow Cover Chance is used, as described
earlier,  only  when creating initial terrain  conditions;  daily
weather changes do not randomly alter the snow cover). Use of the
"Cloudiness  Factor" is covered in a later section. The  Humidity
Factor gives the chance for snowfall.

Every  eight hours (three times per day) the Referee should  roll
1D100 and compare the result to the Humidity Factor. If the  roll
is less than the number shown, snow will fall during that  period
of time. Should the temperature be above freezing, rain will fall
instead of snow.

The three Snow Storm tables are used to determine the  intensity,
duration, and nature of the snowfall once it is established  that
a  snow  storm  is taking place. Roll first on Table  I  for  the
intensity,  using 1D10. The result describes the snow  fall  rate
and  accumulation, and gives a die modifier to be applied to  the
roll on the second table. A roll on 1D10 is then made on Table II
to  determine  the number of hours that snow will  fall.  Another
1D10  roll  is made and Table II used to determine type  of  snow
(wet or powder).

Snowfall may continue for more than one 8 hour period. If a storm
is determined to last all the way through a given period, no  new
roll for snow storms is made. If it is to end in a given  period,
new rolls are made, and the current storm duration is extended by
that  of  any new storm that might occur. New  cloudiness  ranges
should  be determined every 24 hours, though in some  cases  they
will not influence the day's weather.

For the sake of convenience, itast. Once the storms end, however, new  areas  en-
tered  should only have the snow cover that is  established  from
the terrain determination process, and no more.

The Referee, however, should feel free to make any  modifications
in  procedures or results that seem reasonable for a given  world
or  situation. Additional tables to provide for wider  variations
between  worlds or climate zones can be developed,  or  elaborate
rules  for  movement and behavior of storm fronts  and  the  like
could  be  introduced. The basic procedures  here,  however,  are
quite  sufficient to simulate the most important aspects of  snow
storms in the game.

Cloudiness  and Visibility: Clouds may serve to  make  navigation
difficult, or to inhibit the effective use of aircraft or  space-
craft. Visibility is determined from the Cloudiness and  Humidity
chart.  First  roll  1D100 once every 8 hours  to  determine  the
percent  cloud cover. Roll 1D100 again and if the result is  less
than or equal to the Cloudiness factor, there is a low overcast.

When  the  sky  is overcast, navigation  without  instruments  is
impossible for characters or vehicles on the ground. Air vehicles
must  fly  in "Nape Of the Earth" mode (NOE) to  maintain  visual
contact with the ground -- and are fully subject to ad verse  ef-
fects of wind and weather when doing so. At high speeds,  modifi-
ers must be applied to the appropriate skill (piloting or vehicu-
lar operations) to avoid accidents in NOE mode. Pilots may  avoid
risk  and  fly above cloud level, but they lose visual  con  tact
with the ground. They must descend below the cloud cover to land,
risking local weather problems as they do so.

Vehicular situations are discussed more fully in a later  section
of the booklet.


                     ICE WORLD I (PART 6 OF 28)

TEMPERATURE

The basic mean day temperature of a world is given in the  tables
in book 2 of Other Suns. This temperature represents the mean day
temperature  found at 30o north or south latitude on the  planet.

On  a  typical Terrestrial planet, the mean day  temperature  de-
clines  at  a rate of 1.5oC per degree of latitude north  of  30o
North or south of 30o South latitude. On a world with a mean  day
temperature of 25oC (298 Kelvin) the mean day temperature at  76o
N latitude would be -44oC.

Moving  inward  from the 30o latitude line towards  the  equator,
temperatures  increase at a basic rate of 1oC per two degrees  of
latitude shift. At the equator, a world with a mean day  tempera-
ture  of 25oC (298 Kelvin) would have a mean day  temperature  of
40oC.

Axial  Tilt also affects a world's temperature variations.  Axial
tilt  for  a Terrestrial world is (8D6-8)  degrees  (this  yields
tilts  of from 0 to 40 degrees, with 20o being average  --  Earth
has  an axial tilt of 23o). Once the axial tilt has  been  deter-
mined, two other factors are established: the tropical bands, and
the rate of temperature variation enjoyed by the world.

The  tropical  bands are set at the lines of latitude  north  and
south  of  the equator equal to the axial tilt itself;  thus,  on
Earth,  the tropical zone runs between 23o N and 23o S  latitude.
Within  this band there are no seasonal variations.  Outside  the
tropics, apply the following seasonal temperature modifiers:

Summer: Add 0.6oC per degree of axial inclination.

Winter: Subtract 1oC per degree of axial inclination.

By way of example, our sample world, with a mean day  temperature
of 25o has an axial tilt determined to be 17o. At 30o N latitude,
the  temperature varies from 8oC in winter to 35oC in summer.  At
76o N latitude this figure ranges from a winter low of -71oC to a
summer high of -34oC.

These basic steps -- base temperature, modifications for latitude
and modifications for axial tilt and season -- enable the Referee
to determine the expected local temperature for any point on  the
globe for any time of year.

Once this temperature has been established, additional  modifiers
are  applied to cover specific situations that may arise  in  the
course of the game.

Altitude:  Temperatures derived from the steps above are for  sea
level.  For every 200 meters elevation above sea level,  tempera-
ture decreases by 1oC.

Daytime:  The temperature derived from the previous steps can  be
determined  to be for early evening (just after sunset).  In  the
course of the day, temperatures will slowly increase to a maximum
temperature,  then fall to this "daytime" temperature just  after
sunset. Roll 1D10 and divide the result by the atmospheric  pres-
sure of the planet; this amount is added to the local temperature
(as  modified by altitude) to yield the daytime high. The  actual
temperature  will increase evenly over the hours between  sunrise
and  mid-afternoon  (halfway between mid-day  and  sunset),  then
decrease to the "daytime" temperature at dusk.

Nighttime: The opposite effect occurs at night. Roll 1D10, divide
by  the  atmospheric pressure, and subtract this value  from  the
local  temperature  to find the low temperature  for  the  night.
Again,  the  actual change should be spread over  the  time  from
sunset  to  one hour before dawn; the temperature  gradually  in-
creases from this low value to the standard local temperature  at
dawn.

Referee's  note: It should be remembered that rotational  periods
vary  from  world to world and, moreover,  planets  with  extreme
axial  tilt will have a diurnal cycle wherein a single "day"  can
be  six  months  long, even if the rotation period  is  close  to
twenty-four  hours. Add the possibility of tidally locked  worlds
where the sun never shines on half the globe and the result is  a
wide variation in how these day/night temperature changes  should
be applied.

Temperature  Effects: Variations in temperature have three  major
effects:  on  the environment, on equipment,  and  on  characters
themselves.

When the temperature is above freezing, snowfall becomes rainfall
and  snow  already on the ground begins to melt.  Melting  is  an
uneven process, but a workable rule of thumb is to remove 1D6 x 1
millimeter  of snow cover per hour per 5 degrees C.  Should  rain
fall on melting snow, treat a moderate storm as adding 10 degrees
C to the temperature, a heavy storm 20 degrees.


                     ICE WORLD I (PART 7 OF 28)

WIND
