URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/b1hqlHMGcOY
TITLE: Other Suns : 27 (sic 26) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, 16 October 1990 15:24:09 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.26 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero.  This gaming material is
distributed on a shareware basis.  If you do not use the material you
owe the author nothing.  If you do use it please pay him what you
think it is worth at a fair price becasue it took a damn lot of work
to develop and playtest.  The USmail address is:

Niall Shapero
2536 Short Ave
Los Angeles CA 90066
USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:
(213)822-6729

Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will
pass them on to Niall.

----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
somewhat  fragile;  five points of damage penetrating  the  three
point protection will destroy the unit.

Heater  masks  may  be worn interchangeably  among  species  with
similar  facial  structures. Thus, for example,  a  Skiltaire,  a
H'Reli  and  a Sanchenzii could all use a single heater  mask.  A
Human  could also use this same Skiltaire/H'Reli/Sanchenzii  mask
--  but an Altani, with her pronounced muzzle, could not  wear  a
Human specific heater mask (designed for the relatively flat face
of Humans).

Battery  Pack: A light battery used to supply power to  Class  IV
CWG,  heatsuits, and/or heater masks. A battery pack  masses  100
grams and costs 10 smu.

On a single charge, the battery will provide sufficient power  to
heater filaments for 900o C-hours of heating. If used for a Class
IV CWG set to an additional +20o C and a heatsuit set at +10o  C,
the  battery  would  last for 900/(20+10) = 900/30  =  30  hours.
Increasing  the  heatsuit  setting to +30oC  would  decrease  the
battery life to 900/(20+30) = 900/50 = 18 hours.

Recharge time is 1 turn and recharge cost is 1 smu.

Heat  Pack: A heavier battery used to power Class IV  CWG,  heat-
suits,  and/or  heater masks. A heat pack masses  500  grams  and
costs 50 smu.

On a single charge, the battery will provide sufficient power  to
heater  filaments for 10,000o C-hours of heating. If used  for  a
Class  IV CWG set to an additional +25o C and a heatsuit  set  at
+15o  C, the battery would last for 10,000/(25+15) = 10,000/40  =
250 hours. Increasing the heatsuit setting to +50oC and adding  a
heater  mask  at  +5o  C  would  decrease  the  battery  life  to
10,000/(25+50+5) = 10,000/80 = 125 hours.

Recharge time is 1 turn and recharge cost is 10 smu.

Catalytic Heater: A small non-reusable chemical heat source  used
to  provide  augmentation (see Clothing Protection  Table)  under
other  clothing. A +5o C temperature modifier is  applied  (above
and beyond all other clothing modifiers) when this type of heater
is used. Additional heaters can be used to increase the  tempera-
ture modifier (add an additional +5o C per added heater).

Mass is 0.1 kg; cost is 10 smu per heater. Multispecies. Provides
6 hours of heat, after which it is discarded.

TRANSPORTATION

The  following equipment is available for  personal  (individual)
transportation.

Skis:  Basic skis are long, flat runners worn to  travel  quickly
over  snow. Usually, skis are worn in pairs. Human  skis  measure
from  150 to 220 centimeters in length; those for  other  species
are  proportional  to  LEN. All skis are  considered  to  include
bindings for the appropriate number of feet and types thereof.

Skis  are  tailored to individual  species  requirements,  though
members of two roughly similar species could use each others skis
if desired. Skis mass 10 grams per centimeter of length, and have
10 hit points and 10 points of impact and energy protection. Skis
cost 7.5 smu per kilogram.

Ski  Boots: Special boots are usually required to ski  that  give
extra support to the ankle (or equivalent location). One boot  is
required per foot.

Boots mass 1% of body mass per hit number covered (a typical boot
only  covers only one hit number, the foot) and cost 10  smu  per
kilogram mass.

Ski  Poles: Poles are needed to propel the skier over  snow,  and
assist  in maintaining an upright stance. They measure 0.7 x  LEN
of user, mass 1 gram per centimeter length, and cost .02 smu  per
centimeter  length. Poles can be used as the equivalent of  short
spears in combat situations; they are treated as 10 point weapons
in this case.

Snowshoes: Snowshoes are a means of cross country travel, measur-
ing 25 centimeters by 100 centimeters (for typical Human  units).
Increase  (or decrease) the surface of the snowshoe  proportional
to  the  MASS of the wearer. Snowshoes mass 1  kilogram  for  the
typical SIZ 20 Human (mass varies proportional to mass of wearer)
and cost 5 smu per kilogram mass. Snowshoes have 10 hit points.

Snowshoes may be manufactured in the field from available materi-
als  through a use of the Arctic Survival skill.  Manufacture  of
one pair of snowshoes takes 1 man-hour. Field manufactured  snow-
shoes mass twice as much as indicated above.

Snowshoes  are  designed for a single-species. Ski poles  may  be
used with snowshoes -- if this is done, the skill is subject to a
+25% modifier.


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 22 OF 28)

Primitive  Ice Skates: Ice skates manufactured in the field  have
runners of bone, wood, or low-grade metal (these materials  must,
of  course, be available). They must be sharpened after  every  8
hours  of use; a -15% skill modifier is applied for each 8  hours
of  use without sharpening. Sharpening requires an  hour's  Light
Activity per pair. Skates cover one hit location each (the  foot)
and mass 0.0175% of body mass each. They have 10 Hit points.

Ice Skates: Standard ice skates are those typically available  in
industrial  societies. Edges last indefinitely. Skates cover  one
hit  location each (the foot) and mass 0.01% of body  mass  each.
They cost 10 smu per kilogram of mass. Normal ice skates have  10
hit points.

Stabilized Ice Skates: An advanced type of ice skate,  stabilized
skates  incorporate  gryostabilizers and  sophisticated  computer
systems  to aid the skater in staying upright and moving at  high
speed  (add  20% to skill). These skates mass as per  normal  ice
skates,  but cost significantly more and require a power  source.
They  have  8 points of impact and energy protection  and  5  hit
points.  Stabilized  skates cost 10 times the  cost  of  standard
skates of the same mass.

The battery pack for stabilized ice skates masses 0.1  kilograms,
and  will operate one pair of skates for 100 hours.  The  battery
pack  can  be  recharged in 1 turn at a cost of 0.1  smu.  A  new
battery pack costs 5 smu.

SNOWMOBILES AND ACCESSORIES

Light Snowmobile: A light, one-man vehicle, the light  snowmobile
is designed with two forward ski runners and a centrally  mounted
rear  track. The driver stands at the rear of the vehicle,  grip-
ping  the controls. The driver is exposed to the  elements  while
driving  --  only one Human sized passenger is  allowed,  and  no
cargo space is provided. This vehicle masses 150 kilograms.

The body of the light snowmobile will provide 10 points of impact
and  energy  protection. If 15 points of  damage  penetrate  this
armor, the snowmobile will be ruined.

The light snowmobile is electrically powered with a range of  500
kilometers  at  50 kilometers per hour;  battery  recharges  take
three full turns and cost 0.1 smu. The typical unit sells for 325
smu.

Standard Snowmobile: This vehicle is larger and more robust  than
the  light snowmobile. Saddles provide seating for up to 3  Human
sized characters, and there is 100 kilograms of additional  cargo
capacity. The driver and all passengers are again exposed to  the
elements. This vehicle masses 500 kilograms.

The  body of the snowmobile will provide 15 points of impact  and
energy  protection. If 15 points of damage penetrate this  armor,
the snowmobile will be ruined.

The snowmobile is electrically powered with a range of 500 kilom-
eters  at  50 kilometers per hour; battery recharges  take  three
full turns and cost 0.2 smu. The typical unit sells for 500 smu.

Racing  Snowmobile:  An expensive,  short-range,  but  ultra-fast
version of the snowmobile, the racing model is essentially  iden-
tical to the light snowmobile save in performance characteristics
and price.

The racing snowmobile is electrically powered with a range of 150
kilometers at 90 kilometers per hour. The typical unit sells  for
585 smu.

Wheel  Kit:  This is an adapter kit which permits  wheels  to  be
mounted  on snowmobiles and snowmobile trailers. One kit  is  re-
quired  per 500 kilograms of vehicle mass. When  mounted,  wheels
enable snowmobiles to operate as standard wheeled vehicles,  with
speed  and performance characteristics as given for the  specific
vehicle type.

Mass  is 10 kilograms per kit, and the cost is 15 smu.  Multispe-
cies gear.

Float  Kit:  This is another adapter kit, used to  mount  pontoon
floats and a propeller on the snowmobile. This turns the  snowmo-
bile  into  a makeshift boat. One kit is required for  every  250
kilograms of vehicle mass. Water speed is 1/10th the land speed.

The kit masses 25 kilograms and costs 10 smu. Multispecies gear.

Trailers:  Three  models  of snowmobile  trailer  are  available,
designed to be towed by any model of snowmobile. With one trailer
attached,  the  basic speed is 0.75 times the normal  speed.  Two
trailers  cut speed in half; three trailers reduce speed  to  one
quarter.  No more than three trailers may be pulled by  a  single
snowmobile.  Vehicle Operations skill is also reduced by 10%  for
each trailer pulled. The frames of the trailers provide 15 points
of  impact and energy protection (and are destroyed by 10  points
of  penetrating damage). All can be fitted with either wheels  or
floats. All trailers protect from the environment.

Cargo Trailer: Carries up to 500 kilograms of cargo. Mass (empty)
is 300 kilograms. Cost is 125 smu.

Passenger  Trailer: Carries up to 4 Human sized passengers.  Mass
