URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/WqetJdz5rPo
TITLE: Other Suns : 23 (sic 22) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Monday, 15 October 1990 16:08:10 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.22 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero.  This gaming material is
distributed on a shareware basis.  If you do not use the material you
owe the author nothing.  If you do use it please pay him what you
think it is worth at a fair price becasue it took a damn lot of work
to develop and playtest.  The USmail address is:

Niall Shapero
2536 Short Ave
Los Angeles CA 90066
USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:
(213)822-6729

Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will
pass them on to Niall.

----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
for  Dakti). From 80 mm and above 60 mm (20 to 30 mm  for  Dakti)
all endurance expenditures are tripled and recovery rates divided
by 3.  From 81 mm to 100 mm (31 to 40 mm for Dakti) all endurance
expenditures  are doubled and recovery rates are  halved.  Beyond
400 mm Hg (120 mm Hg for Dakti) oxygen poisoning occurs.

In the hypoxia regime, the character will lose 1D4 END PER  MELEE
ROUND until he dies. In the oxygen poisoning regime, the  charac-
ter  will be subject to a 1D4 attack vs. CON each day that he  is
in  the  overly rich atmosphere -- damage done by the  attack  is
done both to CON and to the CHEST hit location (or to the THORAX,
FOREQUARTERS, OR BODY if no CHEST location is present).

The range of pressure under which endurance costs are tripled  is
referred  to  as the Minimal Oxygen regime for the  species.  The
range  of  pressure under which endurance costs  are  doubled  is
referred to as the Subnormal Oxygen regime for the species.

To  adapt  to Subnormal regime from Normal  regime  takes  41-CON
days. To adapt to Minimal regime from Subnormal regime takes  69-
CON days. To adapt to Minimal regime from Normal regime takes 98-
2xCON  days.  Once adapted to the new  oxygen  regime,  endurance
costs  return to the "normal" values. Adaptation is lost  if  the
character  is returned to a normal atmosphere for more  than  1/2
the  number of days originally required to adapt to  the  lowered
oxygen partial pressure atmosphere. On the average, an adventurer
will  adapt to Subnormal regime in 4 weeks, or to Minimal  regime
in 12 weeks (and lose this adaptation after 2 or 6 weeks  respec-
tively in a normal atmosphere).

NOTE:  Atmospheric  pressures for worlds in Other Suns  are  sea-
level  pressures; high altitudes can cause considerable drops  in
air  pressures.  A  more detailed account of how  this  works  is
included in the upcoming Other Suns adventure/supplement Mountain
World.

Cold Weather Effects:

Distinct  from the problems associated with fatigue are  the  ef-
fects of low temperatures on life forms which are not adapted  to
extreme cold. Most carbon-based life forms suffer in sufficiently
low  subzero  temperatures,  and lack of  proper  protection  can
result in quick and unpleasant death.

Determining  Temperature: The "apparent air temperature" is  used
to  determine  the effects of cold air on living  beings.  It  is
found by combining two factors -- the local temperature (found in
the  manner  discussed earlier) and the force of the  wind.  High
winds can cause the apparent air temperature to drop quite a bit,
a  phenomenon  known as the "Wind Chill Factor." The  Wind  Chill
Table is used to determine the apparent air temperature by cross-
indexing  the local temperature and the wind speed.  [NOTE:  this
table  does not precisely duplicate the official U.S.  Army  Wind
Chill table, and should NOT be used to determine danger levels in
real low temperature survival situations.]

When  base temperatures are much below -54oC, or winds exceed  64
kph, little additional effect is observed beyond what is shown on
the table with one very important exception -- when the still air
temperature  falls  below  -60oC, the air  is  no  longer  safely
breathable;  it will freeze lung tissue. If the  air  temperature
falls  below -60oC and heater masks (or other  protective  equip-
ment)  are  not used, 1D4 damage will be done to  the  CHEST  (or
THORAX, or FOREQUARTERS or BODY locations in cases where there is
no  CHEST  location)  each 20 minute period  that  the  condition
continues.

Effects of Low Temperatures: Low temperatures sap body heat,  and
can  result in a condition referred to as hypothermia.  When  the
air  is  sufficiently cold, lung damage can occur  (as  mentioned
above)  and  other effects such as frostbite are discussed  in  a
later section. Hypothermia results in a slow but steady weakening
of the body which, unless halted, can only end in death.

Hypothermia  (technically,  a  subnormal  body  temperature)  may
develop  in any case where the adventurer has been exposed to  an
apparent  air temperature below his racial tolerance. The  actual
air  temperature  and  wind speed are modified by  fur  type  and
protective clothing worn before the Wind Chill Table is consulted
to determine apparent air temperature. If this resultant apparent
air temperature is less than the racial tolerance for the charac-
ter,  hypothermia  may develop. Air temperature  and  Wind  Speed
modifiers  for fur, feathers, and clothing and are given  in  the
Temperature Protection Chart.

Hypothermia  is  more of a threat to small creatures  than  large
ones: the surface area to volume ratio is higher, and thus  there
is  a larger heat loss. The basic time interval  for  hypothermia
checks  is once per CON+SIZ-20 hours of exposure. A CON  roll  is
attempted  (roll  CONx5  or less on 1D100) modified  by  -1%  per
degree the apparent temperature is below racial tolerance  level.
If  this roll is failed, the character may attempt a  Control  of
Self skill roll (if he has that skill at a non-zero  percentage).
If neither of these rolls is made, the character begins to suffer
the  effects of hypothermia: he can longer recover END from  rest
and  will lose an additional 3D6 END per hour (1D6 per 20  minute
period)  until  he loses consciousness and dies, or until  he  is
warmed to his normal body temperature.


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 14 OF 28)

Racial  Tolerances:  Each intelligent race in Other  Suns  has  a
temperature  tolerance  range and a daily  variation  range  (see
Chapter  9  of Other Suns). The second of these  two  ranges  has
provides the racial tolerances over short intervals. The  minimum
apparent  temperature tolerated is repeated here,  together  with
species' normal body temperatures. Altani: -16o C minimum, 39o  C
body temperature. Ata'a: -10o C minimum, 35o C body  temperature.
Bjora:  -16o  C minimum, 38o C body temperature.  Dakti:  -60o  C
minimum,  24o C body temperature. HClothing  and
natural fur or feather protection is defined by two numbers:  the
number  added to the ambient temperature before the wind is  fac-
tored in, and the number of kilometers per hour deducted from the
wind speed before the wind chill is determined.

Type  I  protection has no temperature or wind  speed  modifiers.  
For each greater type, add +5 degrees to the temperature modifier
and add -10 kph to the wind speed modifier.

Altani (winter pelt):  Type IV
Altani (summer pelt):  Type III
Bjora:  Type II
Dakti (Stage 1 & 2):  Type I
Dakti (Stage 3):  Type III
H'Reli:  Type II
Human:  Type I
Uquoi:  Type I
Korli:  Type III
Sanchenzii:  Type II
Skiltaire (Aquatic, winter pelt):  Type VI
Skiltaire (Aquatic, summer pelt):  Type IV
Skiltaire (Arboreal, winter pelt):  Type V
Skiltaire (Arboreal, summer pelt):  Type III

For  any  of the furred species above with differing  winter  and
summer pelts, the change over from winter to summer pelt (or vice
versa) takes four weeks. NOTE: The fur of the Aquatic variety  of
Skiltaire, when properly groomed, sheds water (just like the  fur
of  the  terrestrial sea otter), and  thus  immersion  (discussed
later  in this section) is not a danger to aquatic variety  Skil-
taire.

Recovering  from  Hypothermia:  In order to  restore  the  body's
temperature  regulating  ability, it is necessary  to  place  the
character  in  an environment where the ambient  air  temperature
equals his normal body temperature. The simplest method of  doing
this is to place the victim in a thermally insulted package (such
as  an "old fashioned" sleeping bag) together with a heat  source
--  commonly  a  member of a species with the  same  or  slightly
higher body temperature. The victim must be kept in this environ-
ment for CON+SIZ-20 hours, or he will slip immediately back  into
hypothermia  on exposure to cold of ANY degree below  his  normal
body temperature.

Exertion and Hypothermia: Activity helps to maintain body temper-
ature, at least for a limited time. For each point of END expend-
ed  as  a result of activity or exercise, increase  the  apparent
temperature  of  the character by 3o C for the  duration  of  the
activity.

Protection: A modification which can be applied to hypothermia is
that of protection -- clothing and fur as already mentioned,  and
shelter. Shelters block the wind even when no sources of heat are
available, so characters inside shelters do not apply wind  chill
effects when determining the air temperature. With an  artificial
source  of  heat -- a fire or a portable heater of some  kind  --
shelters  can  be maintained at a  comfortable  temperature  well
above the racial minimum tolerance level, negating all  hypother-
mia effects.

Protection  values for a number of types of  clothing  (including
various armor types available in Other Suns) are provided in  the
Temperature Protection Chart elsewhere in this booklet.

As the head and extremities are major sources of body heat  loss,
characters  not wearing protective covering over these  locations
decrease the probability of AVOIDING hypothermia by 50%  (natural
fur  or  body cover of type III or above  constitutes  protective
cover for the extremities).


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 15 OF 28)

OTHER ARCTIC HAZARDS

In  addition to problems already discussed, several special  dan-
gers  exist  for characters adventuring  in  subzero  conditions.
These are presented in the sections that follow.

Immersion:  Individuals  who for any reason  become  immersed  in
water (from falling through thin ice, for instance) are in danger
from the effects of arctic cold. For each melee round or fraction
thereof  that any character is in the water (except  for  aquatic
Skiltaire  characters),  the character suffers a 1D4  attack  vs.
CON.  Ordinary  clothes lose all protective value;  only  an  en-
closed, self-contained unit (any of the the Modern Armor suits or
spacesuits)  will continue to provide normal heat  protection  in
the  water.  Altani may also panic if immersed in water  that  is
deeper  than  their heads (see Section 5.3.96 in Other  Suns  for
