URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/An1cwqeTmAk
TITLE: Other Suns : 25 (sic 24) 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Monday, 15 October 1990 16:11:29 UTC+1 - John Redden:
------------------ OS.24 ----------------------------------------
This is being posted to the net by myself for Niall Shapero.

Others Suns is copyright by Niall Shapero.  This gaming material is
distributed on a shareware basis.  If you do not use the material you
owe the author nothing.  If you do use it please pay him what you
think it is worth at a fair price becasue it took a damn lot of work
to develop and playtest.  The USmail address is:

Niall Shapero
2536 Short Ave
Los Angeles CA 90066
USA

Those of you with modems can dial into his BBS using this phone number:
(213)822-6729

Please email any comments to my electronic mailing address and I will
pass them on to Niall.

----------------  end of preamble -------------------------------------------
An emergency shelter takes 10 man-minutes to dig per person to be
sheltered;  two people digging a shelter for five would  take  25
minutes  to  complete the task (five persons  times  ten  minutes
divided  by two workers). If hard pack snow is  being  excavated,
tools  (shovels,  picks, or improvised equivalents  thereof)  are
necessary or the work time is tripled. A blaster on wide beam may
be  used  to prepare a shelter able to hold one  person  per  200
points  of  damage done (this calls for roughly 15 shots  with  a
handblaster, taking about a minute).

A  temporary shelter can be built in a deep snow drift (only).  A
successful Arctic Survival roll will locate an area suitable  for
a  temporary shelter in any area of deep snow (skill roll may  be
attempted  once  per two-minute turn). Excavation takes  30  man-
minutes per person to be sheltered (or 600 points of damage  done
with  a blaster on wide beam). Construction of a  safe  temporary
shelter  (i.e.  one  that won't  immediately  collapse)  requires
either  that  the  work be supervised by an  individual  with  an
Arctic  Survival skill of 30% or better or that ALL  workers  in-
volved in the excavation make their Arctic Survival skill rolls.

Temporary  shelters  are enclosed and hence  protected  from  all
elements.  If a heat source is available,  interior  temperatures
can  be  raised to a point permitting rest  or  clothing  changes
without  fear  of frostbite or hypothermia. A  temporary  shelter
lasts 12+2D6 hours.

A  permanent  shelter  (an igloo) can  be  constructed  from  ice
blocks.  Such  shelters require the supervision of at  least  one
individual with a 30% skill level (or better) in Arctic Survival;
if  no  such individual is present, all workers must  make  their
Arctic  Survival skill rolls (or the igloo collapses).  The  time
required for construction is 4 man-hours per person to be  accom-
modated in the igloo. As with temporary shelters, igloos  provide
a completely protected environment which can be heated to a  safe
temperature level (if a heat source is available). Igloos  remain
as  long  as the temperature remains  below  freezing.  Permanent
shelters require tools for shaping blocks of ice for construction
to  be attempted; without such tools, they cannot be  built.  Any
cutting tool, firmer, or continuous emission laser may be used to
shape the blocks.

Firmers  may  be used to aid in the construction (or  to  compact
limited  quantities of snow). However, as a firmer can  compress,
powder, or disintegrate only up to 40 cubic centimeters of  mate-
rial  per  second (see Section 11.3.2 of Other Suns),  their  use
will be generally limited to cutting or putting finishing touches
on  large  blocks;  construction of a 2 meter x 2  meter  wall  6
centimeters thick from ice would require almost 17 hours of  work
with  a single firmer (though the wall would be  somewhat  denser
than stone).

Where snow cover is absent, dirt, rocks, vegetation, and the like
can  be used to construct similar types of shelter, but the  con-
struction  times  given above are doubled. Construction  work  is
generally  considered to be at least Heavy Activity;  digging  in
frozen earth is generally considered to be Very Heavy Activity.


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 18 OF 28)

Hunting:  Hunting  for food in subzero  conditions  is  generally
harder than for other wilderness survival situations. In hunting,
characters  will need to apply one of several skills --  Hide  in
Cover,  Set Ambush, Move Quietly, Tracking, or  Trap  Set/Disarm,
depending upon the precise type of hunting being undertaken.

If  the character wishes to lie in wait and let game come to  him
before attacking it with some available weapon, he must make  Set
Ambush and Hide in Cover rolls in order to avoid detection by  an
approaching  animal.  Of course, the animal may  make  its  Sense
Ambush and Spot Hidden rolls, thereby spotting the hunter DESPITE
his  successful rolls. The character is considered to be  RESTING
while  hunting  in this fashion. Normally, an encounter  roll  is
made  on  the appropriate encounter/event table  once  per  hour;
however, if an Arctic Survival skill roll is made, the  encounter
roll is made once each 20 minutes (the successful Arctic Survival
roll  indicating  that the adventurer has chosen  a  particularly
suitable location in which to lie in wait).

If  the  character wishes to actively pursue game,  the  Tracking
skill will allow him to do so. For each 20 minutes spent  search-
ing  for game, roll once on the appropriate encounter  table  (or
each  2 minutes if an Arctic Survival skill roll is  made).  Once
the  animal has been located (and the tracking roll  also  allows
positive  identification of the animal tracked) Move Quietly  and
Hide  in  Cover rolls must be made to close to point  blank  dis-
tance.

If  the character wishes to acquire the most small game  for  the
least  effort, he will set out traps. To set each  trap  properly
requires  a  Trap Set/Disarm roll (which may  be  attempted  each
turn).  Roll for an encounter on the appropriate table  once  for
each  trap  for  each hour period (or for each 20  minutes  if  a
successful Arctic Survival roll has been made to select the ideal
locations to set the traps). If the animal does not make its Spot
Traps  roll,  and  it does not roll under LUC  on  1D100,  it  is
trapped. Many animals become extremely frantic when caught and in
certain  types  of traps (leg traps, for example) an  animal  may
chew  one  of its limbs off (or perform a  similarly  distasteful
maneuver)  in order to escape the trap (allow for this on a  roll
of WIL of the animal or less on 1D100).

A  normal trap cannot trap more than one animal;  however,  other
animal encounter rolls should continue to be made even after  the
trap  is sprung. A predator might, after all, show up to eat  the
animal in the trap.

In  all  cases above, the Arctic Survival skill should act  as  a
limiting  skill  for the skills of Hide in Cover,  Move  Quietly,
Tracking, and Set Ambush.

Fishing:  Fishing  makes  use of the Trap  Set/Disarm  skill,  as
discussed  above. A character on temporary or pack ice  may  fish
through  a polynya (a natural opening in the ice -- see  the  En-
counters and events section of this booklet for more details)  or
through  a cut he makes in the ice (cutting requires that 1D10  x
20  points  of  damage be done). Once a hole  is  available,  the
trapping procedure described above is used.

Gathering Food: Edible plant life is at a minimum in most  arctic
settings.  On  a roll of LUC or less on 1D100, allowed  once  per
hour  on  any terrain but ice, characters  will  discover  edible
plant  life. The quantity obtained is 1D10 x 100 grams of  edible
matter.  NOTE:  only omnivore and herbivore life forms  can  draw
sustenance from plant matter; carnivores, like the Altani and the
H'Reli, need meat to survive.

Going Without Food: The food and water requirements for adventur-
ers  in arctic conditions are as follows: 100/SIZ grams  of  meat
per  kilograms  of  body mass per day, 1 liter of  water  per  40
kilograms  of body mass per day. For omnivores, plant matter  may
be  substituted  for meat in the diet in a ratio of  4  grams  of
plant  matter  per gram of meat. A character can  go  CON/2  days
without food (round fractions up) and CON/10 (round fractions up)
days without water before he suffers unfortunate consequences.

For  each N periods of CON/2 days without food and M  periods  of
CON/10  days without water, increase the END cost of all  activi-
ties performed and the time required to recover 1D6 END by N+M.

A  day in which less than the requisite amount of food  is  eaten
(or water drunk) counts proportionally towards days without  food
(or  water). That is, if only half the needed food is eaten  that
day,  the  count of days without food would be increased  by  1/2
day.

Example:  Mikhail Andreivitch (see Other Suns for Mikhail's  full
statistics)  has a CON of 9. after 5 days without food or  1  day
without  water, Mikhail will begin to suffer. On the  second  day
without water, all Mikhail's END expenditures will double --  and
he  will  only recover END at half the normal rate  (1D6  per  40
minutes  as  opposed  to 1D6 per 20 minutes). On  the  third  day
without  water,  his END expenditures will TRIPLE,  and  he  will
recover END at a rate of only 1D6 per hour. If he has been  with-
out water for two days and without food for four, he will  expend
END  at twice his normal rate and recover half as fast; the  next
day,  if he has had no food or water, he will expend END at  FOUR
times  the  normal rate (having gone 3 days without water  AND  5
days  without  food)  and  will recover 1D6  END  only  every  80
minutes.

After  2 x CON days without food, a 1 point attack is  made  each
day  vs. CON and the result taken against both CON and total  hit
points  (if the attack fails, no damage is taken).  A  successful
Control  of Self roll (one attempt allowed per day) prevents  any
damage being taken from this source.

After  CON/2 days without water, a 2D4 point attack is made  each
day  vs. CON and the result taken against both CON and total  hit
points.  A successful Control of Self roll, one  attempt  allowed
per day, halves the damage taken from this source; how ever, even
a  successful  Control of Self roll will not  reduce  the  damage
below 1 point.


                    ICE WORLD I (PART 19 OF 28)

OPTIONAL  RULE:  Without  food, the body will  quickly  lose  its
ability to maintain a normal temperature in the face of a subnor-
mal ambient temperature. After N intervals of CON/2 days  without
food,  increase the chance of hypothermia by 50x(N-1)%.  Thus  in
our preceding example, Mikhail's chance of going into hypothermia
would  increase by 50% starting on the 5th day without  food.  If
Mikhail,  then,  were in air at -3o C with a 16 kph  wind  (after
adjustments  for clothing) he would normally have a  10xCON-  12%
chance  of avoiding hypothermia (78% for Mikhail). After  5  days
without  food,  his daily chance of  avoiding  hypothermia  under
these conditions would drop from 78% to 28%, after 10 days  with-
out food, his chances of avoiding hypothermia would be less  than
0%.

Water:  It may seem strange, but water is often the hardest  ele-
ment  to obtain in arctic conditions. A heat source is  necessary
to obtain water from snow or ice; alternatively, a hole cut  into
ice (see Fishing, above) can be used to reach a fresh-water pond,
lake,  stream, or river. Remember that a salt-water ocean  cannot
provide drinking water; only fresh water may be so used.

Snow can be melted by body heat, but each liter of water obtained
