URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/xV2CzsfEaoI
TITLE: FTL space travel 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, 13 November 1990 00:29:53 UTC - John Redden:
I sometimes run a game called "Cosmos" that has FTL travel in it.  The 
starships range in power from what I would call "Travelleresque" to more
powerful that your typical Other Suns scout ship and with a major tech level 
in between these two models.  
Like other gaming masters I wanted to somehow limit the scope of FTL
flight and not inhibit the players freedom.  One technique I used was
to have the "shape" of hyperspace change at key points usually known
ahead of time by space navagation systems.  But often it would not be
known how much they would change.  A jump to a star system would be 16
light years, but the jump back could be 1600.  This tended to limit
the scope of the game on one hand, make it adventurous and exciting on
the other (expecially for badly fumbled jump rolls *snicker*).

Another special effect is to put little random "time holes"  "one way worm
holes" and other such exotica around for the players to be amused and 
worried about.  

Also just give the captain orders from the corporation or group that is paying
for the adventure to "go to this system and come home"  Jump to another system:
role play a court scene.  

John R, the master of the reddened suns...
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Friday, 16 November 1990 17:15:34 UTC - Winthrop's All-Night Pizza and Mortuary:
In article <21...@ttidca.TTI.COM <>>, red...@ttidca.TTI.COM <> (John Redden) says:

>Like other gaming masters I wanted to somehow limit the scope of FTL
>flight and not inhibit the players freedom.  One technique I used was
>to have the "shape" of hyperspace change at key points usually known
>ahead of time by space navagation systems.
I have a space RPG running in its second year now.  I have found (through
experimentation) that the best setup (at least with the players I GM) is
one in which the players either (a) own a ship which is not capable of FTL
travel, and have a friendly NPC who can "piggyback" them, or (b) to have the
players be crew on said friendly NPC's FTL ship.  Either way, I can
(without raising anyone's ire) keep control of where they go.

Of course, players like it when their characters have a reliable form
of transportation of their own, so I go with (a).

This way, the characters can bounce around their base system (which I put
'way out in the boondocks, where they can't get into too much trouble)
without help, but they have to go through the friendly NPC (and, thus, me)
to get outsystem.

This is in a sysyem where military starships regularly travel at
10 E 10 c, and a trading starship can get 100,000 c without too much
difficulty.  The friendly NPC just happens to have an old ship which
is only capable of 1 lightyear per day.  At that rate, I can have the
players in a nearby system 10 lightyears from home and they can't go back for
supplies without a delay of a month or so.  They think twice about what
to bring along when they go outsystem.  In fact, I never have to worry
about "siphoning off" excess money from them; they spend it at a
ferocious rate just buying equipment.

E.g.:
Player: "We have one medical robot.  Two would be nice."
GM:     "One point two million marks, please."
Player: "Er--we haven't sacked Rome, y'know, just found an abandoned ship."
GM:     "Care to try the stock market?"

The answer to players who have the exploring bug usually isn't in
slowing down the movement rates of ships, it lies in using their own
fears/abilities against them.  My players tend to run heavy on social
skills (because they looooove conning people out of their money), and
you can't use a skill like crowd control on an unexplored world.

Also, you can cut down on outsystem adventuring just by *letting* them
explore outsystem.  It'll take ten minutes of game time:

GM:       "Your characters are a month older, as it took 35 days to get to the
               New France system.  Mark it down on your character sheets."
Players:  "What's here?  Money?  Gold?  Robot mining ships made of milk and
               honey?"
GM:       "No, no, and no, in that order.  Asteroids.  Rocks.  And a planet
               that is no more inhabitable than Mars."
Players:  "Damn.  Next star?"
GM:       "Add another two months for some more worthless rocks. . ."
Players:  "Forget it."

Empty systems get boring really fast, and bring in no money.  Make it
obvious that the money/XP/fun/babes/whatever the party wants or needs
is to be found on an inhabited world.  Then set up a bunch of inhabited
and interesting worlds within FTL distance.  With about 20 or so worlds,
the players will never get bored.  A planet (and its attendant star system)
is a big place to explore.

Even in a space RPG, players tend (as far as I've seen) to like the usual:
interesting NPCs.  Challenging local politics.  Equipment that breaks
every once in a while, so the Techies can keep in practice.  Exploring gets
boring, at least in an area that's not at war.  Wartime, on the other hand...

I don't do wartime, except in fantasy games.  Tech societies tend to lob
nuclear weapons about.  Kills PCs.

GM:       "You take 3000 points of damage."
Players:  "WHAT!?"



  --Winthrop's All-Night Pizza and Mortuary (Crusade Branch)
    "Look, I know it's against local regulations to come out of jump
     half an AU from the local star.  We were thrown off course by a
     nova.  You don't believe me?  Wait about fifteen years, then look
     towards galactic east.  You'll see it.  Can I interest you in some
     lead sheilding?"
                        --Said by a character in the game discussed
                          above.  Unfortunate natural disasters near the
                          characters while out exploring tend to make for
                          stick-at-homes, too.  Did I mention that?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sunday, 18 November 1990 00:10:48 UTC - Brian or James:
In article <numberzandstufflikethat> hb...@psuvm.psu.edu <> (Winthrop's All-Night Pizza and Mortuary) writes:
        (Material deleted)


>Also, you can cut down on outsystem adventuring just by *letting* them
>explore outsystem.  It'll take ten minutes of game time:
>
>GM:       "Your characters are a month older, as it took 35 days to get to the
>               New France system.  Mark it down on your character sheets."
>Players:  "What's here?  Money?  Gold?  Robot mining ships made of milk and
>               honey?"
>GM:       "No, no, and no, in that order.  Asteroids.  Rocks.  And a planet
>               that is no more inhabitable than Mars."
>Players:  "Damn.  Next star?"
>GM:       "Add another two months for some more worthless rocks. . ."
>Players:  "Forget it."
>
>Empty systems get boring really fast, and bring in no money.  Make it
>obvious that the money/XP/fun/babes/whatever the party wants or needs
>is to be found on an inhabited world.  Then set up a bunch of inhabited
>and interesting worlds within FTL distance.  With about 20 or so worlds,
>the players will never get bored.  A planet (and its attendant star system)
>is a big place to explore.
        True, but in most SFRPGs, there's no good reason why they don't built
jillions (OK, dozens) of perhaps cheap, and at least non-voting automated
probes to winnow out the chaff systems.

        Who makes the probes? Well, if they're pricey, probably the gov'ts.
If they're cheap, maybe the little fellahs can make their own X-Plore-Omatic
probes to go where no one has gone. If FTL radio exists, you'll want to encode
your transmissions so those nasty claim jumpers don't use *your* probe info
for filling their pockets. If there isn't FTL commo, then your probes will 
have to come home to let you know what they found. Be a real shame if someone
else snatched up your tinker toy. Probably a good idea to give your probes
enough automony & gunpower to resist wrongful kidnapping. Not *too* much
autonomy, mind you. Those AIs can get real uppity about profit shares if
you aren't careful.

        Enough years of this sort of thing, and PCs avoid exploring because 
of all those paranoid probes lurking in the unexplored regions, convinced
everyone who isn't a verified shareholder is Out To Get Them.


>Even in a space RPG, players tend (as far as I've seen) to like the usual:
>interesting NPCs.  Challenging local politics.  Equipment that breaks
>every once in a while, so the Techies can keep in practice.  Exploring gets
>boring, at least in an area that's not at war.  Wartime, on the other hand...
>
>I don't do wartime, except in fantasy games.  Tech societies tend to lob
>nuclear weapons about.  Kills PCs.
 
        Stupid Tech societies do. Hostile techs can conflict without mutual
suicide; look at New York and California. 
        Nukes are like chemical weapons: you *never* use them on people who
retaliate in kind.


>GM:       "You take 3000 points of damage."
>Players:  "WHAT!?"
>
        Not "What hit-location" or "Can I roll with the blow"? :)
                                                                James Nicoll

>
>  --Winthrop's All-Night Pizza and Mortuary (Crusade Branch)
>    "Look, I know it's against local regulations to come out of jump
>     half an AU from the local star.  We were thrown off course by a
>     nova.  You don't believe me?  Wait about fifteen years, then look
>     towards galactic east.  You'll see it.  Can I interest you in some
>     lead sheilding?"
>                        --Said by a character in the game discussed
>                          above.  Unfortunate natural disasters near the
>                          characters while out exploring tend to make for
>                          stick-at-homes, too.  Did I mention that?
